	Which bewept to the grave did go
	Hear me one word.
MACDUFF	What concern they?
	Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
	And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
	dignity of the whole body.
	MACBETH
HORATIO	I did very well note him.
	Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;
	Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
	Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
	to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
	If you will marry, make your loves to me,
LADY MACBETH	If he had been forgotten,
	To seek him here that means not to be found.
	You give away myself, which is known mine;
	Is it not well? What should you need of more?
	Weep our sad bosoms empty.
	To lay the blame upon her own despair,
	I have this present evening from my sister
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS,
KING LEAR	Pray, do not mock me:
Widow	He does indeed;
	myself, to be in a due resolution.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
	Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
	And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
	And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
	roast your goose.
	Great business must be wrought ere noon:
	May carry through itself to that full issue
	darkness; alias, the devil.
	[Exeunt]
	Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
	And then I ran away to call the watch.
	She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
	And I am sick at heart.
Nurse	I speak no treason.
Second Clown	Mass, I cannot tell.
	Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
	Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
	It is not nor it cannot come to good:
KENT	                  Hail to thee, noble master!
	That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
DUKE	Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
	How now! what news?
	And world's exile is death: then banished,
	And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
	this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
	should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
	Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	How fares my lord?
	Within thy help and holy physic lies:
	this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
HAMLET	The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
	been wise.
	When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
GLOUCESTER	Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
MERCUTIO	Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
	Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
	Is but a little way above our heads,
GLOUCESTER	[Reads]  'This policy and reverence of age makes
	of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
	there. Be the players ready?
	Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
	The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
	Slain by his servant, going to put out
	[Exit]
	them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but
HAMLET	O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
	News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!
	At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
	What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
	Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
	His grief grew puissant and the strings of life
	thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
	gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
MALCOLM	Well; more anon.--Comes the king forth, I pray you?
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
GONERIL	[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
ROSENCRANTZ	Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
	was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
KING	He hath arm'd our answer,
	Than in my thought it lies.
	Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
HAMLET	Who commands them, sir?
REYNALDO	But, my good lord,--
	I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.
KING LEAR	Let the great gods,
PAROLLES	Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
	Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
	course; where, if you violently proceed against
	Have they been merry! which their keepers call
	How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
	Yet I express to you a mother's care:
PARIS	Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
	It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
	I would adventure for such merchandise.
	for't. What players are they?
	that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
	On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
KING CLAUDIUS	We will try it.
	[Enter a Messenger]
	conceived against your son, there is no fitter
	For, with throwing thus my head,
	To come into his presence.
	great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
	From what you rightly are.
	That, being of so young days brought up with him,
	To empirics, or to dissever so
	There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
	Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
	How you shall bid God 'ild us for your pains,
HAMLET	I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
	As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
	daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
PAROLLES	In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there,
	[Enter KING LEAR, Fool, and Gentleman]
	the attempt I vow.
LENNOX	And that well might
	And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
	And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;
	Contagious blastments are most imminent.
	Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
	That if again this apparition come,
	love thee.
ROMEO	This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
ROSS	That now
	I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
GONERIL	So am I purposed.
	He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
	That show of such an exercise may colour
	God ha' mercy on his soul!
	Albany than Cornwall.
	Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
	With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
	Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
	liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
HELENA	I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
	No!
Second Lord	Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
JULIET	I will confess to you that I love him.
CURAN	Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
	Knock,
	Desire his jewels and this other's house:
	If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
	letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
	impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I
	greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
	Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife
	Had I it written, I would tear the word.
	And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
	one man picked out of ten thousand.
KENT	Alack, why thus?
	Which the commission of thy years and art
	And such an instrument I was to use.
LORD POLONIUS	Very like a whale.
KENT	Why, fool?
	Soon may I hear and see him!
MERCUTIO	A challenge, on my life.
	That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
	Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
	Could never plant in me.
	That still would manage those authorities
OSRIC	I commend my duty to your lordship.
	The name, and all the additions to a king;
	That nature, which contemns its origin,
	I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
	evidence; therefore stand aside.
	Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
BERNARDO	It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
	In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
	me: but I requited him for his lie; and, I
First Soldier	You are a merciful general. Our general bids you
OPHELIA	Good my lord,
OPHELIA	O heavenly powers, restore him!
KING	Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
	As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
	We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
	Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
	Led him, begg'd for him, saved him from despair;
REYNALDO	My lord, I have.
	Within the book and volume of my brain,
	the place for your labour.
	The harvest is your own.
	Think true love acted simple modesty.
	Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
	But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
ROMEO	O, I am fortune's fool!
	[Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two
	If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
	Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
	Shall in the general censure take corruption
All	                  Our duty to your honour.
	Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
	Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
	yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
	myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
	Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
