	Of general assault.
GUILDENSTERN	My lord, we were sent for.
	I'll visit you.
	To love my father all.
	Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
	That we find out the cause of this effect,
JULIET	Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
	Making the green one red.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alas, he's mad!
	's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
	[Beats down their swords]
Fool	She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
	bite my thumb, sir.
	If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
	Ha!
GONERIL	No more; the text is foolish.
	One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
	To be opposed against the warring winds?
	judgment, your highness is not entertained with that
	[Giving a paper]
BENVOLIO	An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
	Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
	The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
SCENE IV	The heath. Before a hovel.
PARIS	Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
ACT I
	This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
PAGE	He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
	In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee;
	Unless that husband send it me from heaven
	Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
	Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
MARIANA	I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
	From me, whose love was of that dignity
KENT	Is this the promised end
	Come, go, good Juliet,
	O, vengeance!
	In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
HELENA	And ever shall
	[Tucket]
	It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
COUNTESS	Now, justice on the doers!
	For it is thine.
ANGUS	|
KING LEAR	You are welcome hither.
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	[Knocking within]
	Which craves the instant use.
	Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
	Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
	We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
	Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
	When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
	KING LEAR
	That tend upon my father?
	To seek him here that means not to be found.
	Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
HAMLET	[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
	commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
	and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down
ACT V
	Not met us on the way.
	Learn more than thou trowest,
	More composition and fierce quality
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	The fits o' the season. I dare not speak
HAMLET	Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
PARIS	My father Capulet will have it so;
MERCUTIO	Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
	Fare you well, my dove!
	Here's yet some liquor left.
First Lord	None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
	A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
	A sister driven into desperate terms,
	all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor;' by which title,
	To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
	A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
	Who hath relieved you?
SCENE I	Forres. The palace.
KING CLAUDIUS	Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
	Who's there?
	[Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two
	Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
	And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
	[Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA,
CAPULET	How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
	[Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR]
	Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
	Inform on that.
	Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
	crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's
EDMUND	Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could--
	As much as child e'er loved, or father found;
	[Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters]
	Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
DUNCAN	My plenteous joys,
	[Sings]
BENVOLIO	Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
	too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
Clown	No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
	A sleeping potion; which so took effect
SCENE V	A hall in Capulet's house.
	For husband shalt thou--
	Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
	mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
	Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
	Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
	where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
Third Musician	Faith, I know not what to say.
BENVOLIO	But new struck nine.
	I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
CAPULET	When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
	[Exit BANQUO]
	Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu,
	Ghost of Hamlet's Father. (Ghost:)
	honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat
	God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
ALBANY	The weight of this sad time we must obey;
	He will return; and hope I may that she,
	What is your study?
First Lord	Nay look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
LAFEU	Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
KING CLAUDIUS	Pluck them asunder.
	May carry through itself to that full issue
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
CORNWALL	I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
MERCUTIO	Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
KING	We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
	O, that she knew she were!
	Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	Go softly on.
	doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
BENVOLIO	Romeo will answer it.
	mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
	But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
LAFEU	He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose
Ghost	I am thy father's spirit,
	This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
	When our most learned doctors leave us and
DUNCAN	What bloody man is that? He can report,
	[JULIET wakes]
	How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
	noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the
	Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
	They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
	He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
	Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
	Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
	Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth;
PAROLLES	To any count, to all counts, to what is man.
	A father, and a gracious aged man,
	Sir, in this audience,
	Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
EDGAR	Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
KING LEAR	To thee and thine hereditary ever
	he will keep out water a great while; and your water
	worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
	Of thinking too precisely on the event,
BERNARDO	It would be spoke to.
	Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
	A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
MERCUTIO	Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
	The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
	Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
	Each small annexment, petty consequence,
JULIET	Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
	Why you proceeded not against these feats,
	Under the moon, can save the thing from death
KING	If he were living, I would try him yet.
	He will again be well: if much you note him,
GONERIL	An interlude!
HAMLET	There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
ACT V
Ghost	Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
	Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
LORD POLONIUS	[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
	You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife,
	Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
	For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
	it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
	how say you?
	In any staining act.
	That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
	To make it truster of your own report
REYNALDO	                  My lord, I did intend it.
	Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
COUNTESS	I play the noble housewife with the time
	From over-credulous haste: but God above
	And am fall'n out with my more headier will,
	Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude;
	'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
KING LEAR	You! did you?
	Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
	Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
	Or, if I live, is it not very like,
	HAMLET
	It warms the very sickness in my heart,
	rogue: for, though it be night, yet the moon
JULIET	O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
	You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
	business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
Lord	I'll send my prayers with him.
	The hearing of my wife with your approach;
	That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
JULIET	Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
	shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
LORD POLONIUS	By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
ACT IV
	[Enter JULIET]
	And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
	And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
	Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
	Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
	(Captain:)
	Back do I toss these treasons to thy head;
	The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
	And I will do it without fear or doubt,
	Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
HAMLET	What, look'd he frowningly?
	Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
	That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
Second Servant	I'll never care what wickedness I do,
MACDUFF	What's the disease he means?
	[Exeunt severally]
	Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
ACT II
	It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
	To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
	The fellow has a deal of that too much,
	For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
	As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
SCENE V	A Heath.
	Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
	This sword, this arm, and my best spirits, are bent
	And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
PETER	Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
	And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
	[Fool goes in]
	wilfully seeks her own salvation?
	But mice and rats, and such small deer,
	[Enter ALBANY]
	heavenly compulsion; knaves, thieves, and
CORNWALL	|
	When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
	Thus do go about, about:
	Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
	The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
MALCOLM	|
	sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
	If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
	the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation
	with his followers]
	[Exit above]
	Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
	Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
EDMUND	I do serve you in this business.
	losing of hope by time.
	Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	This is mere madness:
OSRIC	Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
	To keep itself from noyance; but much more
HAMLET	Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
	And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
	Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
OPHELIA	Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
	see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
KING	Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
	live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
	And finding him, the searchers of the town,
LAERTES	I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
	Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
	To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort,
	[Exit EDGAR]
	Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
MALCOLM	Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
ROSS	I have said.
	Late footed in the kingdom?
	grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
	all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every
MACBETH	Well, say, sir.
ROMEO	Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
	Bench by his side:
	horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
	I took it for a man; often 'twould say
	Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
	epitaph than their ill report while you live.
PAROLLES	O, let me live!
	uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
	Her mother is the lady of the house,
	A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
	That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
EDGAR	Why, the night gone by.
	Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
MARCELLUS	Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
KING LEAR	This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
SCENE III	Another room in the castle.
	Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
Second Capulet	                  By'r lady, thirty years.
ACT II
	Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
	My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
MACBETH	Where?
	Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
	Would murder as it fell.
	Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
DUNCAN	Welcome hither:
	That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
	We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
Old Man	tenant to Gloucester.
Doctor	Do you mark that?
ROMEO	Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
	know you the reason?
	My love and her desert; that canst not dream,
	Due to some single breast?
COUNTESS	I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
	For it excels your first: or if it did not,
	Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
	That she whom all men praised and whom myself,
ROMEO	I do protest, I never injured thee,
	Already are i' the court.
	[Wounds his arm]
BANQUO	Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
	Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
	Makes vow before his uncle never more
	Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
	Is she not down so late, or up so early?
	Than twenty silly ducking observants
	That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
	And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
	By his own interdiction stands accursed,
	But only she; and she deserves a lord
	That she would soon be here.
	Means and attendants and my loving greetings
	Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
	Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
	from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
	To sing a requiem and such rest to her
	O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
		     By my old beard,
LADY MACBETH	Only look up clear;
	But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
	More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
	KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners; Captain,
	to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
	Your wisdom best shall think.
	To answer from our home; the several messengers
	Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
	themselves may; but the many will be too chill and
MACBETH	Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
	his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
	Behind the arras hearing something stir,
HAMLET	I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
HAMLET	Nay, I know not:
	Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
COUNTESS	Not much employment for you: you understand me?
	To youth and liberty.
	I never gave you aught.
	I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
	The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
LAFEU	Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
	Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
ROMEO	Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
	He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
HELENA	Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
	For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
	Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
	I told him of the army that was landed;
	Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
ROMEO	Nay, that's not so.
BANQUO	Let your highness
	[Exit]
First Sailor	God bless you, sir.
	Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
	Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister
	For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
	Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
	Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
	Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
	meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
QUEEN GERTRUDE	I shall obey you.
	Let in the maid, that out a maid
	[A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead
	To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
	this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
	Doth make against me of this direful murder;
	Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
	More needs she the divine than the physician.
LADY CAPULET	Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
	Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
	But never hope to know why I should marry her.
	have bad dreams.
	[Exeunt, with a dead march]
First Lord	'Tis our hope, sir,
	'hic jacet.'
	fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
	This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
	O royal knavery!--an exact command,
	And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
	great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
KENT	See better, Lear; and let me still remain
	[Exeunt some Servants]
	Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
	[Pointing to POLONIUS]
	Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
HAMLET	How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
	With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
	I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
	[Exeunt all but HAMLET]
DIANA	And this was it I gave him, being abed.
	I dare abide no longer.
	[Exit]
	without any malice, but to speak of him as my
HORATIO	What's that, my lord?
	To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
	But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
ROMEO	If my heart's dear love--
	What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
	So crimeful and so capital in nature,
CAPULET	Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
GONERIL	We must do something, and i' the heat.
	But know not how to do it.
	[Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants]
BERTRAM	He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
	Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
	My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
	Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
	Among fresh female buds shall you this night
	O, a pit of clay for to be made
LADY MACDUFF	Every one.
	To go to Paris?
	If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
COUNTESS	Nothing in France, until he have no wife!
	Where such as thou mayst find him.
SAMPSON	Well, sir.
KING LEAR	Ay, every inch a king:
	Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
JULIET	[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
	I'ld say I had eyes again!
First Soldier	Boskos thromuldo boskos.
LAFEU	Nay, come your ways:
	Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
	May do, to express his love and friending to you,
Fool	Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
COUNTESS	Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
	A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
	[Snatching ROMEO's dagger]
	And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee;
HORATIO	As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
	[Enter HAMLET]
	I'll prove it on thy heart,
	Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
LAERTES	Think it no more;
	hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
	What power is it which mounts my love so high,
	[Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX]
	Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,
	Only she comes too short: that I profess
	When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
	May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother;
	That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
	[March within]
	his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
	Remains in danger of her former tooth.
EDMUND	I will seek him, sir, presently: convey the
	A villain kills my father; and for that,
	All by the name of dogs: the valued file
HORATIO	Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
ROMEO	I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
	I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
	praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
	The soldiers' music and the rites of war
ROMEO	Pink for flower.
	That she which marries you must marry me,
SCENE V	Gloucester's castle.
	controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
HAMLET	The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
	Pertains to you alone.
Second Witch	Fillet of a fenny snake,
	He that conceals him, death.
	court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all
	Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
	Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
	Without the form of justice, yet our power
Doctor	There is means, madam:
CORDELIA	And so I am, I am.
	Are with a most indissoluble tie
	I had my father's signet in my purse,
Fool	All thy other titles thou hast given away; that
	To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
PARIS	Monday, my lord,
Player Queen	Sleep rock thy brain,
	for't. What players are they?
	in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
SCENE III	A room in Capulet's house.
	We could control them. If you will come to me,--
	When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
	That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
	I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
	For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
	on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
	dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
	Than pity for mischance!
ROSS	Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
	Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
	Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
LAFEU	Who's that? a Frenchman?
	For England.
KENT	Yes.
	You give away this hand, and that is mine;
	My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
	[Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS]
	Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
	and 'gentleman.'
	Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
	A lightning before death: O, how may I
	(QUEEN GERTRUDE:)
DUKE	Welcome shall they be;
	Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
	And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
	Thy gory locks at me.
GONERIL	Hear me, my lord;
	And for the day confined to fast in fires,
GLOUCESTER	Alack, alack the day!
	Than stands on any shoulder that I see
	Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
	[Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers]
MACBETH	Being unprepared,
SCENE II	Capulet's orchard.
	her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
MACBETH	The service and the loyalty I owe,
LADY MACBETH	Infirm of purpose!
	Thou know'st already.
	How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
	sought for, in the great chamber.
	To cure the desperate languishings whereof
	Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
MACDUFF	What should he be?
	With blood removed but little from her own?
	but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
First Citizen	Up, sir, go with me;
	Came then into my mind; and yet my mind
	[Flourish. Re-enter GLOUCESTER, with KING OF FRANCE,
	My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
BENVOLIO	And what to?
HAMLET	I must to England; you know that?
KENT	[Kneeling]  O my good master!
	You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
	And drive his purpose on to these delights.
GLOUCESTER	It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
	[Enter COUNTESS and Steward]
HAMLET	Yours, yours.
	And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
JULIET	Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
GONERIL	My most dear Gloucester!
	how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
	and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
	cannot play upon me.
OSWALD	Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
LADY MACBETH	O proper stuff!
	Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
	better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
HAMLET	How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
	o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
Player Queen	   So many journeys may the sun and moon
	MACBETH
	grave-maker?
BERTRAM	She's impudent, my lord,
	snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
DIANA	'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
	abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
MACDUFF	Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
	Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
	sir?
MACBETH	Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
	daughters thy mothers: for when thou gavest them
	dial is now upon the prick of noon.
	[Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND]
BERNARDO	|
	Drew on me here again.
	His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
	And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
First Soldier	His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
	Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
MACBETH	I'll put it on.
EDGAR	From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
GLOUCESTER	Let go my hand.
	[Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within]
	assembly: whither should they come?
	Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
	You Capulet; shall go along with me:
	is a strumpet. What's the news?
	Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
	[Re-enter Clown]
	But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
HAMLET	'Tis very strange.
	Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
	He's loved of the distracted multitude,
	but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
	Why I descend into this bed of death,
	May have the due note of him; and of my land,
	(Third Watchman:)
	And yet I would it were to give again.
ALBANY	                  Which is that adversary?
	And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
MACBETH	Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
	I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
	What she has done for me?
	[Enter COUNTESS and Clown]
	Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
	Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
	OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING
LADY MACBETH	You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
EDGAR	The foul fiend bites my back.
	That birds would sing and think it were not night.
	And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
	The safety and health of this whole state;
	For now I spy a danger,--I entreat you
	And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
	To take upon you what is yours: you may
	Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
	Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
	All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
	late innovation.
ACT IV
	I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
	Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
	with thee.
	As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
REYNALDO	As gaming, my lord.
HORATIO	Let them come in.
	then enter Citizens, with clubs]
	Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
Son	As birds do, mother.
MACDUFF	What concern they?
	[Enter BERTRAM and DIANA]
	It is enough I may but call her mine.
	We will bestow ourselves.
	O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
	It shall make honour for you.
	eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
	And let us once again assail your ears,
	The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
	be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
GUILDENSTERN	Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
PAROLLES	Keep him out.
	Draw; seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.
	fit.
	Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
	Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
	The only son of your great enemy.
	goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
	To pray for this good man and for his issue,
	What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
LAERTES	Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
	To let these hands obey my blood,
	That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
	But the Norweyan lord surveying vantage,
	[To ALBANY]
KING LEAR	Dost thou call me fool, boy?
OSRIC	A hit, a very palpable hit.
Clown	The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of
	That pitiful rumour may report my flight,
KENT	Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
	My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
MACBETH	Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
	And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
	Abate thy valour in the acting it.
	That they do know my son, come you more nearer
	The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
	Their precious stones new lost: became his guide,
	The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
	According to our order.
	tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
	[Exit OSRIC]
LAFEU	an old lord.
First Servant	Away with the joint-stools, remove the
Second Lord	I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
	To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
	Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
	(Sergeant:)
GLOUCESTER	'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
EDGAR	Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
REGAN	What might import my sister's letter to him?
	We must, with all our majesty and skill,
Messenger	Come with my lady hither.
	That this remotion of the duke and her
	Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name
	When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
	Or else worth all the rest; I see thee still,
	must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
HAMLET	I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
	[Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER]
	For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
	And show what we alone must think, which never
LADY MACBETH	                  There are two lodged together.
HORATIO	He waxes desperate with imagination.
	[Exit Gentleman]
	An old hare hoar,
Fool	If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten
	Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
	For strangers to my nature. I am yet
	stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
	Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
	demonstration of grief?
	His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
BALTHASAR	Romeo.
	That in their kind they speak it: only sin
	I do not know from what part of the world
	[Exit HORATIO]
	entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
KING LEAR	A bitter fool!
	Of dire combustion and confused events
JULIET	Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
	The shame which here it suffers.
	Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
	yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
	unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor bare,
	A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
	thee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
	In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
	That which you are my thoughts cannot transpose:
	the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
	Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
	Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
	he's a cat to me.
	[Exit REYNALDO]
	[Enter HAMLET]
	Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
	To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
	His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
	Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
GUILDENSTERN	No, my lord, rather with choler.
	Environed with all these hideous fears?
	Received his love?
Third Servant	Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
First Servant	You are looked for and called for, asked for and
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  So he does indeed.
	How shall that faith return again to earth,
	against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
HAMLET	O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
	lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
	If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
	belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
JULIET	O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
	Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve
	It should not stand in thy posterity,
CAPULET	                  Will you tell me that?
	Our eldest-born, speak first.
	Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
	I smell the blood of a British man.
		        O, sir, are you come?
	Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
	That labouring art can never ransom nature
MACBETH	                  When?
Herald	Again!
First Gentleman	A servant only, and a gentleman
	As level as the cannon to his blank,
	of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
	One of our order, to associate me,
	HAMLET
	I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
	[Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN]
	his valour: what is his honesty?
	Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
	Holla the other.
	Think true love acted simple modesty.
	Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
	Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
	courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
PAROLLES	Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
	the instruments,
BERTRAM	I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
	Which smoked with bloody execution,
PAROLLES	O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
PAROLLES	Why think you so?
	That's sorry yet for thee.
	a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
	For never was a story of more woe
	The triumph of his pledge.
BERTRAM	I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
	Where is he?
	Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
	No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
	Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
	Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
	To an impatient child that hath new robes
Doctor	You may to me: and 'tis most meet you should.
	But where the greater malady is fix'd,
HORATIO	I beseech you.
	On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
	advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one
	To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
	Where every god did seem to set his seal,
HAMLET	O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
ACT II
	one.
	It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
	Being held a foe, he may not have access
	eats cow-dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and
	I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
	I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
	love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
	out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light of
	HAMLET
	That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
	That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
	That's by me wounded: both our remedies
	Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
	Than for to think that I would sink it here.
	Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
	entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
	Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
	To let you know of it.
CAPULET	No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
	My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
CORDELIA	Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
	To County Paris: then comes she to me,
	Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
	I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
	KING LEAR
CAPULET	Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
	For the ingredients of our cauldron.
	That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
	example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
	Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
HELENA	Not my virginity yet [         ]
LORD POLONIUS	[Behind]  O, I am slain!
HELENA	What is your pleasure, madam?
	Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
	Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
	But cozen'd and beguiled.
	Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
	that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
CAPULET	Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
REGAN	Sick, O, sick!
BANQUO	That trusted home
ACT III
First Murderer	We are men, my liege.
BERTRAM	What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
PAROLLES	Under Mars, I.
HAMLET	Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
GLOUCESTER	Where is the villain, Edmund?
	know himself.
	We would spend it in some words upon that business,
	An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
	As if he had been loosed out of hell
	To be commanded.
HELENA	And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
	The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
	I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
	To business with the king, more than the scope
	This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
	New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
	Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive
	And I had that which any inferior might
	They bore him barefaced on the bier;
	To make oppression bitter, or ere this
KING LEAR	This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so,
	Who I'll entreat to lead me.
First Clown	Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
	have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
Clown	At your service.
	As that of true and faithful Juliet.
	The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
	filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the
	Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
	DONALBAIN, BANQUO, LENNOX, MACDUFF, ROSS, ANGUS,
MERCUTIO	More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
	Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
	his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following]
	court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
	You have some cause, they have not.
	That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
	When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
	With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
	Let sorrow split my heart, if ever I
	Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
	There stays a husband to make you a wife:
KING LEAR	What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
	And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
	That takes the reason prisoner?
JULIET	Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
	How now! what hath befall'n?
SCENE III	A room in Polonius' house.
	Did hate thee or thy father!
	at this line: let me see, let me see--
	With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats;
	[Exeunt]
	Farewell, dear father!
	And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
	But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
KENT	Nor tripped neither, you base football player.
HORATIO	I warrant it will.
	Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
	faults whipped them not; and our crimes would
	Folded the writ up in form of the other,
	Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
	No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
	That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
	What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
HAMLET	I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
	That Romeo bid thee fetch?
	Of man and country.
	Of her awaking, here untimely lay
	The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
	You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
	Against their father, fool me not so much
	The hart ungalled play;
	be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
	let to know it is.
	What party I do follow.
Player King	'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
	that I love passing well.
	You owe me no subscription: then let fall
	Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
	And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
First Lord	With all my heart, my lord.
	will give me occasion.
DIANA	Ay, so you serve us
First Murderer	Most royal sir,
BANQUO	Were such things here as we do speak about?
Nurse	Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
	Your noble friends do lack you.
		       What is that noise?
	And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
	honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
	Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
HAMLET	Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
	[Exit an Attendant]
ROMEO	If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
	Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
	than lack it where there is such abundance.
	As one incapable of her own distress,
HAMLET	Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
	and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
	So stumblest on my counsel?
	white herring. Croak not, black angel; I have no
	To the dark house and the detested wife.
	To what I ask you.
	the attempt I vow.
First Murderer	Stand to't.
Clown	O Lord, sir! There's a simple putting off. More,
	Till the prince came, who parted either part.
	lord of Gloucester.
HORATIO	Well, my lord:
	Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
CORNWALL	Edmund, farewell.
KING LEAR	My curses on her!
	body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear;
PRINCE	What misadventure is so early up,
	To change the course: he's full of alteration
	[Exeunt]
	That wants the means to lead it.
PARIS	Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
	close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
	That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
	with honesty?
	known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
MERCUTIO	A challenge, on my life.
HELENA	I like him well.
KING CLAUDIUS	[Rising]  My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
	Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
	How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
	Intelligence is given where you are hid;
	Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
	Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
	Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,
GREGORY	The heads of the maids?
	know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
	Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
	You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
	You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
GLOUCESTER	Sir, this young fellow's mother could: whereupon
CAPULET	Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
	hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
	fairer face.
	apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
	[To a Gentleman, who goes out]
	Excitements of my reason and my blood,
	What is her burying grave that is her womb,
	Enchanting all that you put in.
SCENE II	Another room in the castle.
	lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
	And beat them backward home.
	Spare not for the cost.
	The leperous distilment; whose effect
	Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
	For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
	And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
	And that which should accompany old age,
BERTRAM	What shall be done to him?
	Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
	I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;
	Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
	For your desire to know what is between us,
Third Murderer	Who did strike out the light?
GLOUCESTER	When shall we come to the top of that same hill?
	Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
	It will come,
	this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
ACT I
	Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
	warlike resistance.
	for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
	to herself her own words to her own ears; she
	[Dies]
		 Why, so: being gone,
	That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs;
	Which is the god of my idolatry,
	'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
	Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
	I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
	The true blank of thine eye.
Second Witch	When the hurlyburly's done,
Fool	Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
	The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
	So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
	The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
EDGAR	Frateretto calls me; and tells me
	find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain
	Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
	As little is the wisdom, where the flight
KING	I think thee now some common customer.
	By this encompassment and drift of question
	To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
	forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
	And that shall lend a kind of easiness
	And by the leave of my good lord the king,
	'Then music with her silver sound
	And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
HAMLET	I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
HELENA	But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
	months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
	Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
	Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
KING	My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
	As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
EDGAR	Tom's a-cold.
	Who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst.
Doctor	Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
LADY CAPULET	Why, how now, Juliet!
	Our innocent self: this I made good to you
KENT	Yes, sir; but anger hath a privilege.
	That ever penury, in contempt of man,
	Speak less than thou knowest,
	For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
MACBETH	                  If we should fail?
KING LEAR	Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
MERCUTIO	God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
	that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
	Is it the king?
HAMLET	A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
KING LEAR	No, no, they would not.
HAMLET	O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
	I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
	There's scarce a bush.
PARIS	My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
	A woman's shape doth shield thee.
	I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness;
MERCUTIO	Why, may one ask?
	Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
KING LEAR	Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
	[Reads]
	love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
	To take the indisposed and sickly fit
	The numbers of our host and make discovery
	But not one follower.
KING	I'll fee thee to stand up.
	believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
	She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
HAMLET	Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
	I pray you, now receive them.
	But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
	She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
BERTRAM	Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.
	A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
Nurse	I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as
CORDELIA	Be better suited:
	Let me unseal the letter.
	Yet I will try the last. Before my body
	Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
	And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
	And from her womb children of divers kind
	written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
	Must be digested, give a favour from you
TYBALT	You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
	Against the grace and person of my master,
	this, give these fellows some means to the king:
	in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
	[Enter three Murderers]
	And these few precepts in thy memory
	We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
	To give some labourers room.
	Towards which advance the war.
	Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
	From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
	That of thy death and business I can tell.
	'lady, lady, lady.'
	Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
	Is the main motive of our preparations,
	Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
	Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
	Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
HAMLET	I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
	That you start at it? I say, I am your mother;
	Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
	But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
	For, with throwing thus my head,
	Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
HORATIO	Have after. To what issue will this come?
	These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
HELENA	'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
	O any thing, of nothing first create!
	[Enter LAFEU]
	[Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE]
	So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
ACT III
	My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
	time; have napkins enow about you; here
	See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
MARCELLUS	'Tis gone!
	shines; I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
	As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
	question of the play be then to be considered:
	|             My lord, from head to foot.
BENVOLIO	Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
	I'll not endure him.
	And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
	Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
	That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
	We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
	mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
	Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
GLOUCESTER	Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
JULIET	What villain madam?
	Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
Gentleman	Contending with the fretful element:
MALCOLM	I grant him bloody,
KING	I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid;
	And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
	That ever yet they heard.
	Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
	Live elves and fairies in a ring,
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
	What might you think? No, I went round to work,
TYBALT	I am for you.
	He but usurp'd his life.
	die. I have letters that my son will be here
OSRIC	The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
CAPULET	Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
	There would be hands uplifted in my right;
PAROLLES	Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath
OPHELIA	You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
	The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
GLOUCESTER	Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
	They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches;
	Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
	Was a sweet creature: such a ring as this,
	With all the strength and armour of the mind,
LENNOX	                  Here is a place reserved, sir.
	And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
	The affliction nor the fear.
	It is my lady, O, it is my love!
SAMPSON	[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
LAFEU	You have it from his own deliverance.
	thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
	It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Doctor	He's scarce awake: let him alone awhile.
	The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
First Player	What speech, my lord?
BERTRAM	How have I sworn!
	But answer made it none: yet once methought
LAFEU	Your lord and master did well to make his
	The British powers are marching hitherward.
	There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
	Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
	[Drawing]
KENT	The same,
	Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
	Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Clown	O Lord, sir! spare not me.
	Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
	might it not?
	Conferring them on younger strengths, while we
	All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
	[Noise within]
	sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
	A ministering angel shall my sister be,
	The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
	PAROLLES retire]
	Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
	You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
	For men so old as we to keep the peace.
	[Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
	Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
ACT I
	Did not attend him as we rode? I think
	Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
	For nature to endure.
	In the dead vast and middle of the night,
	Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
	Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
	Or but a sickly part of one true sense
ROMEO	Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
	Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
	On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
	To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
	Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
	To chide him from our eaves; for he persists
	Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
	To see him every hour; to sit and draw
ROSENCRANTZ:	|
	I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
	And the remainder, that shall still depend,
	Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
	If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
	straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
SCENE VI	Forres. The palace.
First Lord	Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
	Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
	With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
	By diligent discovery; but your haste
	hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
	She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
HELENA	I humbly thank you:
BERTRAM	So should you be.
		what in the world he is
	Life and these lips have long been separated:
	MACBETH
	Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
LAERTES	Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
HAMLET	Nay, but swear't.
	I have not heard examined.
	I know not how to tell thee who I am:
	Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
	Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
HELENA	That wishing well had not a body in't,
	As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
	Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
	about my heart: but it is no matter.
	During the life of this old majesty,
	Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
	wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
JULIET	Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
	A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
	And all things change them to the contrary.
	A modest one, to bear me back a again.
	The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
	Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
	But she's best married that dies married young.
	With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
	Had from the conversation of my thoughts
	Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
	I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
	Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
	Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
	Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
	As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;
JULIET	O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
YOUNG SIWARD	his son.
	A very serious business calls on him.
HAMLET	Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket]
	Where's your father?
	[Throws up another skull]
	But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
	He hath honour'd me of late; and I have bought
	[Knocking within]
	performer, I would have that drum or another, or
	Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
	convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
BERTRAM	O my Parolles, they have married me!
	He used as creatures of another place
OPHELIA	And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
	[Exit Ghost]
	I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
	Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
KING CLAUDIUS	Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
	Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
	I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
	By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
	generally thankful.
KING LEAR	The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
	Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
	Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
ROMEO	                  No matter: get thee gone,
	To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
Second Musician	Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
	(Second Clown:)
	And there an end; but now they rise again,
Clown	By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
	Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
CURAN	a courtier.
	This is a dreadful sentence.
	But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
	[Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
GLOUCESTER	Is it a beggar-man?
	Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
	And young affection gapes to be his heir;
	I would the fool were married to her grave!
	Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
	The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
	Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
	flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
	Here in this city visiting the sick,
	royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
	Into the staggers and the careless lapse
	pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
	Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
	'Here may you see the tyrant.'
HAMLET	Good.
LAFEU	Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
	Or whether since he is advised by aught
	Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
	Soldiers in ambush]
	More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
Second Lord	You are loved, sir:
	To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
	this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
	[Exeunt]
	And, to deal plainly,
	Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
	As it is common for the younger sort
	A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
	fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
	Unto my cell.
	nothing, nuncle?
	So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
	Our setting down before 't.
	his brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
Fool	And I'll go to bed at noon.
	therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you
	They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
	Above the rest, be gone.
SCENE VII	Gloucester's castle.
	daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
	With other graces weigh'd.
	So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
	And reason panders will.
	To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
	maids, and cut off their heads.
	Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
	interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
	feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body
MONTAGUE	Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
	thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
	That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
Second Lord	This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
COUNTESS	Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
	(First Clown:)
	With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
	All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
	He had no other death's-man. Let us see:
First Player	I warrant your honour.
	When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
	How these things came about: so shall you hear
BERTRAM	Our interpreter does it well.
KING LEAR	Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
ROSS	Well too.
HORATIO	In what particular thought to work I know not;
	Or have we eaten on the insane root
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  He's fat, and scant of breath.
	How does your honour for this many a day?
KENT	Strike, you slave; stand, rogue, stand; you neat
HAMLET	Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
ROSS	Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
	There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
HAMLET	[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
BERTRAM	Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
	[She falls upon her bed, within the curtains]
	At market-price have bought.
	thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, was your father dear to you?
	By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
	[Enter another Gentleman]
	And bring in cloudy night immediately.
	This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
	As 'twere a careless trifle.
	and other Attendants. (Lord:)
	That I have longed long to re-deliver;
MERCUTIO	You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
BENVOLIO	We talk here in the public haunt of men:
	He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
	thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
	And you whose places are the nearest, know
Second Witch	Hail!
EDGAR	Away, old man; give me thy hand; away!
KENT	Give me thy hand. Who's there?
HORATIO	|
Third Witch	That will be ere the set of sun.
	take it in what sense thou wilt.
	Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
	That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
	He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
	The bold winds speechless and the orb below
	Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
	Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
	The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
	[Enter Sailors]
KING CLAUDIUS	O heavy deed!
	Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
	Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
DIANA	Let death and honesty
EDGAR	Worthy prince, I know't.
	[Grappling with him]
	[Exit First Servant]
ALBANY	Bear them from hence. Our present business
	Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
	And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
	In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
	A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
	You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
CORNWALL	Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
	Turn from their office to black funeral;
	| [Within]  My lord, my lord,--
	scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
HAMLET	Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
HORATIO	Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
CORNWALL	If you see vengeance,--
	Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;
	Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
	Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
	Of dear import, and the neglecting it
KENT	Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
OSWALD	No, madam.
	start not so wildly from my affair.
	marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
	And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
	for you did bring me out.
REGAN	'Tis most convenient; pray you, go with us.
BANQUO	What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
	Posters of the sea and land,
HORATIO	Let him bless thee too.
KING LEAR	Let it be so; thy truth, then, be thy dower:
	Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
	The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
	[Enter GHOST and HAMLET]
	Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
	or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
	[As they are going out, enter EDGAR disguised]
ROMEO	And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
	To send the old and miserable king
	In borrow'd robes?
	To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
	the dukes he values most; for equalities are so
	Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
	Art not without ambition, but without
MERCUTIO	No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
	What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
OPHELIA	There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
	It helps not, it prevails not: talk no more.
	Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mills,
	And follow me, that will to some provision
OPHELIA	                  My lord, I do not know;
	The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
	though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
PETER	O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
	| Longer, longer.
	Shall be applied: for us we will resign,
FRIAR LAURENCE	This same should be the voice of Friar John.
OPHELIA	O heavenly powers, restore him!
	Thou losest here, a better where to find.
	And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
	That stretch their duties nicely.
	That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
	Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
PARIS	Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Servant	Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
GREGORY	That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
DUKE	Be it his pleasure.
CORDELIA	All blest secrets,
OSWALD	I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
	That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
KING LEAR	I'll see that straight.
	Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
	Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
	[Enter BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the whole army]
	Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
	In the unlawful purpose.
	But float upon a wild and violent sea
KING LEAR	Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
	And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
	As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
JULIET	Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
	Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
	Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
KING	I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful:
	[Exit one with GLOUCESTER]
	[Exeunt]
	Most thoroughly for my father.
	[Knocking within]
EDGAR	I heard myself proclaim'd;
	Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
	As may compact it more. Get you gone;
	He wears his honour in a box unseen,
	plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
	Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
	But, soft! what day is this?
	But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
	Reign in this kingdom?
	O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
	Yea, from the table of my memory
	Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
	Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
VIOLENTA	|
KING LEAR	Let me alone.
Captain	The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
	HAMLET
	substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
	Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive,
	Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
MACBETH	Not yet.
	in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
GLOUCESTER	Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
FRIAR LAURENCE	Benedicite!
	Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
	And, as the world were now but to begin,
	[Exit]
	the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
ROSENCRANTZ	Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
	To have well-armed friends.
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
	Put strength enough to't.
		Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
	Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
	Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body;
	seeming to lament with her. The dead body is
	Shall never see his pardon; for my state
REGAN	Hang him instantly.
	that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
BERTRAM	My lord, I neither can nor will deny
	There shall no figure at such rate be set
	[Exeunt]
	But what we do determine oft we break.
	From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
ACT II
	All the particulars of vice so grafted
	Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
	Tell me what more thou know'st.
	You see, is kill'd in him: and yet it is danger
	And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
BERTRAM	Nothing of me, has a'?
ACT II
	If they not thought the profits of my death
Second Servant	Ay, boy, ready.
	And all those twenty could but kill one life.
	Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
	and Attendants]
SCENE III	England. Before the King's palace.
REGAN	                  O, sir, you are old.
KING LEAR	O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
	I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
MERCUTIO	No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
BERTRAM	Good morrow, noble captain.
	Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
	By me invested, he compeers the best.
	Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
	KING LEAR
	Collected from all simples that have virtue
	slower; and, as I say, retire with me to my
	Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
	The usurper's cursed head: the time is free:
	slip-shod.
	Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
REGAN	                  Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
	How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
LADY MACBETH	Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
	My intercession likewise steads my foe.
ACT V
Clown	I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
	That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
	Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
	The multiplying villanies of nature
	observation we have made of it hath not been
	thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
ROSS	Will you to Scone?
	find him not there, seek him i' the other place
	at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
	The lady stirs.
First Clown	Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
	With tristful visage, as against the doom,
MACDUFF	O Scotland, Scotland!
	When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
	|
	That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
	Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
	Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
	Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
	[Exeunt]
	To swear by him whom I protest to love,
OSWALD	Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
	[Exeunt all except HAMLET]
	Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
	And what obscured in this fair volume lies
HORATIO	                  Good my lord, be quiet.
