	For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
	Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
Doctor	Will she go now to bed?
	In further evil?
	To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
	Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
	his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
LAERTES	[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
	[Exeunt]
	In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee;
	Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
MERCUTIO	Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
KING CLAUDIUS	Our son shall win.
	that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
	[Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO]
	Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
	Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
	the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
	And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
	And we beseech you, bend you to remain
	No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
	comes himself.
	Something--I know not what: I'll love thee much,
	[Pointing at OSWALD]
First Soldier	Bosko chimurcho.
	'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
	That follow'd me so near,--O, our lives' sweetness!
	and 'gentleman.'
	I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
	Will you be ruled by me?
	That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
	So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
	That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief.
ROMEO	With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
	good fortunes.
	a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
	Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
GLOUCESTER	Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
	Will you go see her?
	'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
	For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
	Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
BERTRAM	It is an honour 'longing to our house,
KENT	Made she no verbal question?
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O Hamlet, speak no more:
	But to himself so secret and so close,
Old Man	Ay, my lord.
LADY MACBETH	Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;
	We, poising us in her defective scale,
	A greater power than we can contradict
	Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
	Spoke, with how manifold and strong a bond
DUNCAN	So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
	I have forgot why I did call thee back.
	Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
	Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin; peace, thou fiend!
	Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still;
	Of what should stead her most?
	[Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers]
	Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine:
	Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
	carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal; come your ways.
	As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
LAFEU	Nay, I'll fit you,
Lords	What, my good lord?
	the--No; I know it begins with some other
	Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
	The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received,
	HAMLET
	addition I can: I will not be long from you.
	The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
COUNTESS	Not much employment for you: you understand me?
	[Knocking within]
DUKE OF BURGUNDY	(BURGUNDY:)
	Help, help, ho!
	Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
	The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
HAMLET	I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
HORATIO	[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
HELENA	I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
	From me, whose love was of that dignity
	Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
	In cunning I must draw my sword upon you
	of either's moiety.
BERTRAM	Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
	When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
	EDGAR, Captain, and others following]
First Lord	He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
EDMUND	This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
	Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
	But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
	bate thee a scruple.
	But love thee better than thou canst devise,
LAFEU	His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able
	Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
	bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off]
MALCOLM	Dispute it like a man.
	[Descends]
	Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
	praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
	And every one shall share i' the gains;
KENT	Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My
	As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
	Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
	Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
	[To EDGAR]
JULIET	A thousand times good night!
	sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
	I never gave you aught.
	By the name of most kind hostess; and shut up
	face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
ROMEO	O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
	Dry up in her the organs of increase;
	him to his country for justice: grant it me, O
	Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
	Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
	[Re-enter SEYTON]
	Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce; but thine
	She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
Messenger	News, madam;
	I am worse than e'er I was.
	More than my father's skill, which was the greatest
	gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
	Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
	[Looking on his hands]
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  More matter, with less art.
OPHELIA	Good my lord,
	maledictions against king and nobles; needless
	Lend me an arm; the rest have worn me out
GLOUCESTER	When shall we come to the top of that same hill?
	[Dies]
	Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
	We shall express our duty in his eye;
	more since.
	Reports but coarsely of her.
REGAN	Prescribe not us our duties.
	To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
	To hear him so inclined.
	Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
	The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
	man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
	The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
	How is't, my lord? how look you?
HAMLET	Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
	I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
	Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
	Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
	If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
HELENA	                  But will you make it even?
	And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
	Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
	To avert your liking a more worthier way
	Believe not thy disdain, but presently
	That swift as quicksilver it courses through
	Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
JULIET	Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
	[Enter Sailors]
LORD POLONIUS	With what, i' the name of God?
HORATIO	Remember it, my lord?
	Come, bring me where they are.
	This heavy-headed revel east and west
	What's there?
	time gives it proof. I did love you once.
	for the most part are capable of nothing but
	In me to lose.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
KING	Who lent it you?
	And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
First Murderer	Though our lives--
	Run away, I pray you!
REGAN	Wherefore to Dover, sir?
GLOUCESTER	His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
KING LEAR	Pass.
	Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
	If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
	Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
	Pleasant and helpful to him!
	That I should love a bright particular star
	[Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO]
	Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
	Some comfort, nurse.
	Her vestal livery is but sick and green
	With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
	With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
	too: we shall speak of you there.
	they say barnes are blessings.
	Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
	[Exit]
	Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
	Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
	That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
	KING LEAR
	It had been as a gap in our great feast,
	That are but mutes or audience to this act,
	Then they for sudden joy did weep,
	But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
	And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
	[Exeunt]
	That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
	Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
	Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
	If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
	Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
	With any branch or image of thy state;
	[Draws]
	and horror of it: pray you, away.
	hours at the trade.
	Now his important blood will nought deny
	He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
	Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
	Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
CAPULET	Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
LADY MACBETH	My hands are of your colour; but I shame
	And read out this.
	That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
MACBETH	He does: he did appoint so.
	Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,
	to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
	[Exit POLONIUS]
	And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
	with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
	[Re-enter BENVOLIO]
BERTRAM	They told me that your name was Fontibell.
REGAN	[To EDMUND]  Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
	For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
	That the great figure of a council frames
	shall be the end of my business.
	hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
	You know the wager?
	[Enter FRIAR JOHN]
	And could of men distinguish, her election
	That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
	I will omit no opportunity
HORATIO	It might, my lord.
	I dreamt my master and another fought,
	should find
KING CLAUDIUS	Thou still hast been the father of good news.
	Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
	By his authority I will proclaim it,
	Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
	Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
	And, look you, here's your letter; this it says:
	Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
LORD POLONIUS	Give o'er the play.
	Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
	now. Your date is better in your pie and your
	The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
	[March within]
MALCOLM	But Macbeth is.
	worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
HAMLET	How if I answer 'no'?
MARIANA	I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
	and, upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
SCENE II	A hall in the castle.
	Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
HAMLET	No, nor mine now.
HAMLET	Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
	Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
	Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	And meet i' the hall together.
	That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
	as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
KING	Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
	Into the service of the time and was
	Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
	Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
	have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
	A gentleman of noble parentage,
	As 'tis reported, for the king had married him
	Two Clowns, grave-diggers.
	A limbeck only: when in swinish sleep
	The hind that would be mated by the lion
	That all the miseries which nature owes
GLOUCESTER	Is that the naked fellow?
	Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
		   Welcome, my good friends!
Second Soldier	Captain, I will.
	This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
	to hear it.
	fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
	Sleep shall neither night nor day
MENTEITH	What does the tyrant?
	the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
	[KENT is put in the stocks]
KING LEAR	O sides, you are too tough;
	The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
	[The Page whistles]
	world; but yet she is not well.
	To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
KING	Take her away; I do not like her now;
ROMEO	Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
MARCELLUS	It is offended.
KING CLAUDIUS	Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
	One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
	Hear, nature, hear; dear goddess, hear!
	Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
	But one to dance with! By heaven, I'll steal away.
	now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
	distress in my similes of comfort and leave him to
	Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
	What good could they pretend?
	I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
	According to the phrase or the addition
OPHELIA	My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
	In our heart's table; heart too capable
	Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
	And prey on garbage.
	And I shall lose my life for want of language;
	Commend me to my kinsmen and my son:
CORNWALL	Post speedily to my lord your husband; show him
	[Exit]
MACDUFF	But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
	But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
GUILDENSTERN	                  But we both obey,
	[Knocking]
	In my most ill-composed affection such
OSWALD	I may not, madam:
	Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
	powers of the kingdom approach apace.
	How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
	His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
EDGAR	By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
First Lord	Nay look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
	That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
	garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of
	it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
	sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
	To business with the king, more than the scope
	say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
	As often as I guess'd.
	KING LEAR
	A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
	A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
	Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
CORNWALL	Peace, sirrah!
	We are coming thither: gracious England hath
	And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some
	And hold thee to my heart.
ACT III
LADY MACBETH	What beast was't, then,
SCENE VI	Fields near Dover.
	[Enter PAROLLES]
HORATIO	What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
	not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
	Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
	how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
	And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
	Since that respects of fortune are his love,
	In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
	have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
DUKE	The general of our horse thou art; and we,
	Who hath abused me, as he knows himself,
	So bloodily hast struck?
	upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
	[Aside]
EDGAR	son to Gloucester.
	Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
	tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
SCENE I	The British camp, near Dover.
	To doff their dire distresses.
	Of a detesting lord.
	Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
LORD POLONIUS	Well be with you, gentlemen!
	either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
	[Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,
	From simple sources, and great seas have dried
	Thou canst not then be false to any man.
	crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
	Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
	To see some mischief on him. O!
MALCOLM	What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
	Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
	[pausing]
HAMLET	[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
	As England was his faithful tributary,
HAMLET	Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
	They shall go far with little.
	Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!
	players--as it is most like, if their means are no
	hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
	Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
	Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
	Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
Gentleman	Most sure and vulgar: every one hears that,
	Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
	My love as it begins shall so persever.
	doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
	I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
	Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
	Will bring him to his wonted way again,
	the middle on's face?
	Have so incensed that I am reckless what
KENT	O, then it moved her.
	She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
MERCUTIO	Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
	have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
	there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
LAERTES	A Norman was't?
	Did hate thee or thy father!
	go to bed.
	And the place death, considering who thou art,
HAMLET	son to the late, and nephew to the present king.
	that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
	My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight.
	Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
KING	I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
	And all the better is it for the maid:
		Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
	Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
	Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
	[Exit]
	Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
	Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
	The winds and persecutions of the sky.
	To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
	A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
	Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
GLOUCESTER	Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
	In an imperial charge. But I shall crave
	endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner
	[FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO]
	But in battalions. First, her father slain:
	Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
Gentleman	As I learn'd,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Her father and myself, lawful espials,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	As kill a king!
	None does offend, none, I say, none; I'll able 'em:
	[He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it]
KENT	I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it
	By desperate appliance are relieved,
	That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
	To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
	For we will fetters put upon this fear,
	[Horns within]
	Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
ROSS	His absence, sir,
KING LEAR	Now, by Apollo,--
	Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
	From Goneril his mistress salutations;
JULIET	Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
GLOUCESTER	But where is he?
LAFEU	In a most weak--
	What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
	Where hearing should not latch them.
	What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
	Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
SCENE III	The Duke of Albany's palace.
	[They play]
	Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
	that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
	[Enter MACBETH]
	[Exeunt]
	Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
	And write to her a love-line.
	To prick the sides of my intent, but only
	Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
KING	Now, good Lafeu,
MALCOLM	Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
Nurse	O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
HORATIO	Peace! who comes here?
LUCIANUS	nephew to the king.
LORD POLONIUS	Farewell!
	Her army is moved on.
	What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
	Could to no issue of true honour bring.
COUNTESS	To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in
	a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
	'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
FRANCISCO	Not a mouse stirring.
	To alter favour ever is to fear:
	Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
	In such a gorgeous palace!
	The victory fell on us.
	Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
	[Enter HAMLET, reading]
	HAMLET
Nurse	Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
KING LEAR	What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes
	Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
	The lady stirs.
	question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I
	Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
	[To the Fool]
	[Beats down their swords]
	My father hath set guard to take my brother;
MACBETH	O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
MERCUTIO	And so did I.
	[Exit HORATIO]
HAMLET	I am glad to see you well:
	Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!
	As to expend your time with us awhile,
	Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Second Witch	Show me, show me.
	Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
	in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
LAFEU	Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a
	Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
SCENE I	A public place.
KING LEAR	Ay, boy.
	You look as you had something more to say.
	When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
	differences, of very soft society and great showing:
	Allows itself to any thing.
	lord of Gloucester.
	QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ,
	He was a gentleman on whom I built
	Augurs and understood relations have
	O royal knavery!--an exact command,
	[Re-enter Clown]
First Murderer	Stand to't.
	As it hath fated her to be my motive
	rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
EDGAR	Worthy prince, I know't.
	My boon I make it, that you know me not
	My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
Third Musician	Faith, I know not what to say.
PAROLLES	I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
	Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
	Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	It may be, very likely.
CORDELIA	'Tis known before; our preparation stands
	The bounty and the benison of heaven
	sent to find those persons whose names are here
	[Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs,
MACBETH	If I stand here, I saw him.
	will give me occasion.
KENT	Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back
	Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
	should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that
		  Give me my sword.
	Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
	All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
LAFEU	All that he is hath reference to your highness.
	Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
	Tooth that poisons if it bite;
	[Exit ROMEO]
	And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
		                  My husband!
	And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
PAROLLES	He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
KING CLAUDIUS	A very riband in the cap of youth,
EDGAR	[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
	And shall perchance do good: but speak you on;
HAMLET	Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
	Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
OPHELIA	Pray you, mark.
	over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden
Nurse	Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
	[Ghost beckons HAMLET]
	thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
BERTRAM	I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
MALCOLM	O, by whom?
	Do make their children blind;
First Clown	He was the first that ever bore arms.
	[Enter MONTAGUE and others]
Second Lord	Hath the count all this intelligence?
Second Clown	The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
JULIET	If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
	(Second Servant:)
KING LEAR	Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
	Poison hath residence and medicine power:
EDMUND	Brother, I advise you to the best; go armed: I
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ,
	was guilty of.
KING LEAR	Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd,
	Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
	Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
	Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
Fool:
	Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
	the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
	Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
PRINCE	What fear is this which startles in our ears?
First Murderer	But who did bid thee join with us?
	Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
	Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
DUNCAN	My worthy Cawdor!
	Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
	With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
	I leave you to your wisdom.
Second Musician	Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
HAMLET	Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
	Which can pursue the offender. How dost, my lord?
EDGAR	Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
	'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
	That stay his cure: their malady convinces
PAROLLES	And truly, as I hope to live.
HELENA	If I break time, or flinch in property
	Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
	A Priest. (First Priest:)
	Fortune, that arrant whore,
	By playing it to me with so sour a face.
	You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
	Collected from all simples that have virtue
	Well may it sort that this portentous figure
	Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
BERTRAM	She never saw it.
Fool	[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
KENT	By Juno, I swear, ay.
PAROLLES	Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
	And hardly shall I carry out my side,
	My son corrupts a well-derived nature
	Live here in heaven and may look on her;
	Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
	I conjure only but to raise up him.
	My dearest master, your dear son, may hie:
	They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
BANQUO	|
ROMEO	What is her mother?
LADY CAPULET	Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
	So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
	Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
	Thou diest within this hour.
	Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
	You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
	with a shame as ample.
	Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
	There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
	But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
HAMLET	A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
	And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
Gentlewoman	Good night, good doctor.
SCENE IV	A hall in the same.
	at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
	With terrible numbers,
	to entreat me to 't.
	And not have strew'd thy grave.
	[Exeunt]
	'Sblood, there is something in this more than
	We have convenient convoy. You must know
	For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
	A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
	stage. Then enter MACBETH]
	And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
HORATIO	[Within]	Heaven secure him!
	eat; go to, follow.
	I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
	I, his sole son, do this same villain send
	Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
HAMLET	'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
PETER	servant to Juliet's nurse.
SIWARD	Enter, sir, the castle.
	Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
COUNTESS	Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
	If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
	In most rich choice; yet in his idle fire,
ACT IV
	Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
Fool	[Singing]
	[Exit]
EDMUND	How now! What's the matter?
	This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
	Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
	And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
	Retain that dear perfection which he owes
	To his unmaster'd importunity.
ACT IV
	traitor. Bless thy five wits! Tom's a-cold,--O, do
	Is 't not the king?
	On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
	'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
	Told him my pilgrimage: but his flaw'd heart,
LADY MACDUFF	Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
	And I, the mistress of your charms,
	feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body
	virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
	That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
	Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
LORD POLONIUS	If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
	force of honesty can translate beauty into his
Second Lord	Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
Son	Was my father a traitor, mother?
	That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
LADY CAPULET	What is the matter?
	But in our circumstance and course of thought,
	Let Hercules himself do what he may,
	Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
ROSENCRANTZ	Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
	For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
	I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave;
	'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
	sir!' I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
	Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
	She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
	That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
	He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
KING LEAR	Do not abuse me.
MACBETH	Whence is that knocking?
	The wood began to move.
	Your marriage comes by destiny,
JULIET	O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
	To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
	Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
	If I had given you this at over-night,
	I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!
Widow	If you shall please so, pilgrim.
	The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
SCENE V	Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
	Unfold the imagined happiness that both
	With us to watch the minutes of this night;
HAMLET	In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
	Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
	Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
	If there be any good thing to be done,
	The multiplying villanies of nature
	I come from Lady Juliet.
	The sun, that looks upon his worshipper,
	Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
	after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
	Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
	He only lived but till he was a man;
KING	Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
	one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
	Against their father, fool me not so much
	slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
CAPULET	What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
LORD POLONIUS	[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
	And my imaginations are as foul
	And this shall free thee from this present shame;
	As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
ROSENCRANTZ	To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
DIANA	I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
	[Enter ROMEO]
HAMLET	                  I will watch to-night;
	Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
SCENE II	Florence. The Widow's house.
	What is her burying grave that is her womb,
	Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
		go follow them to prison:
	this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
	But, true it is, from France there comes a power
LAFEU	The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou
ACT III
	lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
	And passion in the gods.'
	To this detested groom.
	Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!
ACT II
	As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
HAMLET	Never make known what you have seen to-night.
	County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
Gentleman	The king's not here.
Nurse	Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
	have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
	Our blood to us, this to our blood is born;
	They say, our French lack language to deny,
	I have done no harm. But I remember now
COUNTESS	May the world know them?
	Players.
	Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
	The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
	[Exit]
	Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
LORD POLONIUS	That's very true, my lord.
	Not shriving-time allow'd.
	herself wittingly.
	[Exit]
	To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
	lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
	[Re-enter JULIET, above]
	your lordship.
	Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
	But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
	[Exeunt Players]
	[REGAN plucks his beard]
MACDUFF	The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
	That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
	course for England: of them I have much to tell
	[Exeunt]
OSRIC	Nothing, neither way.
	they list.
	I would not for the wealth of all the town
	you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
	Are many simples operative, whose power
	For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
	Doting like me and like me banished,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN]
KING LEAR	With him;
	Did not together pluck such envy from him
PRINCE	Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
	Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
	I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
GONERIL	Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
	That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
	Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
	And are by me with child,' &c. This is done:
	thou wast born with.
GLOUCESTER	I do remember now: henceforth I'll bear
EDMUND	I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
	letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
GONERIL	Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
	Did ever in so true a flame of liking
	With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
	To England send him, or confine him where
	Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
	Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
	Than I to Hercules: within a month:
	Prithee, allow the wind.
	truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
Nurse	Even or odd, of all days in the year,
	To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
	fair; there was good sport at his making, and the
	How now! where's your master?
	qualities were level; Dian no queen of virgins, that
	Requite him for your father.
	Gives way to in repose!
Fool	Prithee, nuncle, be contented; 'tis a naughty night
	[Exeunt]
	there's money for thee.
	To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
OPHELIA	I was the more deceived.
HAMLET	I do beseech you.
	Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
	Are to your throne and state children and servants,
Widow	Ay, marry, is't.
	Whatever I shall think.
	'Murder!'
	me like a dog; and told me I had white hairs in my
	Upon your grace's part; black and fearful
	Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
	With all the strength and armour of the mind,
	Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
KING LEAR	Wilt break my heart?
	[EDMUND is borne off]
	Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
	For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
	'Alack, why does he so?'
MARCELLUS	|
	If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
	My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
	honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
	sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
	whether you were sent for, or no?
	And at that time he got his wife with child:
	(Servant:)
	Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
KING CLAUDIUS	How long hath she been thus?
	But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
	O, what more favour can I do to thee,
	Give me my father!
	These hands are not more like.
	I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
	Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
	And will not wrong it.
REGAN	                  O, sir, you are old.
	[Sings]
	[Enter COUNTESS and Clown]
	The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
	And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.
BERTRAM	Stay: the king.
	This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
	skill in grass.
Son	And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
KENT	                  Good my lord, enter here.
	I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
	[Exit. Alarums]
	yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
	The other found out there.
HORATIO	It is a nipping and an eager air.
	And our affairs from England come too late:
	none, remember thy friends; get thee a good husband,
	Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
	[He goeth down]
	But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
	I have not heard examined.
	My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love:
Old Man	Fellow, where goest?
EDMUND	I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
	Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
	Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
	[Exit]
	this pipe?
ROMEO	Whose house?
	wish might be found in the calendar of my past
Clown	I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court: our
	Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
	That death and nature do contend about them,
	[Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants]
	[Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance]
ALBANY	Speak, man.
	[Laying his hand on his sword]
	God bless you, sir!
BERTRAM	I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
KING LEAR	No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, and
	To his dog-hearted daughters, these things sting
OSRIC	I commend my duty to your lordship.
	earnest of thy service.
	Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
	[Exit Ghost]
	Ere they can hide their levity in honour;
	I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Both Murderers	We are resolved, my lord.
Doctor	Therein the patient
	Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!
	The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
		     For you, great king,
	O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
	And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
	the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
	Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
	By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
	[Exit HORATIO]
	Go tell the duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them,
	Strives in his little world of man to out-scorn
	And soar with them above a common bound.
LENNOX	And that well might
	Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
	That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
MACBETH	[Aside]                Come what come may,
	But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
	O, now I would they had changed voices too!
	Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
	sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand
ROMEO	That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
KENT	He hath no daughters, sir.
	Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
MALCOLM	I grant him bloody,
	metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost
	Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain, all
	virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
	worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
LAFEU	Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
	[Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE]
	Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
	[JULIET appears above at a window]
	Since that the truest issue of thy throne
	As will not leave their tinct.
ROMEO	A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
	This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man]
HELENA	But this exceeding posting day and night
Fool	A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.
MALCOLM	What I believe I'll wail,
LADY MACBETH	What's the business,
CORNWALL	Where hast thou sent the king?
Gentleman	This I'll do for you.
FRANCISCO	Bernardo?
	Make servants of their betters.
	But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
	That of thy death and business I can tell.
First Witch	Show!
	Which, if convenience will not allow,
	[First trumpet]
	But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
	And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
	Thy letters have transported me beyond
	By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
	No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
	For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
	It pleased the king his master very late
	The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
HELENA	I do beseech you, sir,
	As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
	Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
SCENE V	Elsinore. A room in the castle.
	And falls on the other.
Second Musician	I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
ROSENCRANTZ	Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
	And with this knife I'll help it presently.
	The day almost itself professes yours,
	For thy undaunted mettle should compose
	This sword, this arm, and my best spirits, are bent
	in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
	For breathing and exploit.
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
HAMLET	O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
	Our foster-nurse of nature is repose,
HELENA	Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
	When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
HAMLET	I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
	And live the purer with the other half.
	It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
	My voice is in my sword: thou bloodier villain
KENT	How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
COUNTESS	With very much content, my lord; and I wish it
REGAN	Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
BENVOLIO	O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
	My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
MALCOLM	Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
	With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
	But first I beg my pardon, the young lord
	And from her womb children of divers kind
LAERTES	Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
	And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
	In differences so mighty. If she be
	But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
	The power of man, for none of woman born
	Might have the freer course.
	And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
LADY MACBETH	My royal lord,
	his valour: what is his honesty?
	I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
	To this unworthy husband of his wife;
Doctor	Not so sick, my lord,
	Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
	That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
	That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
	Your servant Kent: Where is your servant Caius?
	Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
KING LEAR	I would learn that; for, by the
	Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
	Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him!
EDGAR	The foul fiend bites my back.
KENT	No, do not.
BERTRAM	My gracious sovereign,
	[BERTRAM gives a ring]
	Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Widow	Marry, hang you!
KING	Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
HAMLET	No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
HELENA	Take this purse of gold,
	For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
	Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
	In neither aught, or in extremity.
	We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
	My low and humble name to propagate
	and boy, thirty years.
HAMLET	                  Why, right; you are i' the right;
	Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
	Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
BENVOLIO	My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
	The instant burst of clamour that she made,
	That she which marries you must marry me,
Gentleman	Something he left imperfect in the
HORATIO	My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
FRIAR LAURENCE	For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
	Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
	The head and he shall louse;
	But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
	And with a larger tether may he walk
HELENA	Sir, I can nothing say,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
	Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
	Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
	Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
EDGAR	Here comes Kent.
	A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
	There's hell, there's darkness, there's the
	carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
Nurse	Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
	Till seven at night: to make society
	Whose violent property fordoes itself
	Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
	inquire further after me; I had talk of you last
	Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
	was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
	That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
	The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
OSWALD	Where may we set our horses?
Ghost	                  My hour is almost come,
PAROLLES	Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars!
	As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
	To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
	That done, laugh well at me.
	Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
	And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
Nurse	Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
	Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
	To mend it, or be rid on't.
	Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
	Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
ALBANY	Save him, save him!
REYNALDO	My lord, that would dishonour him.
			     BERTRAM.
	Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
	might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
	Which craves as desperate an execution.
	on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
	My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
	To one of woman born.
	I will advise you where to plant yourselves;
PAROLLES	I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
	out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
	Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
	Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
CORNWALL	'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
	A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
	Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
	I care not if thou dost for me as much.
OSWALD	Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
	[Exit]
	Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
CORNWALL	My villain!
	with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
	It sends some precious instance of itself
	O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
SEYTON	'Tis not needed yet.
	(Messenger:)
	breed. If it shall please you to make me a
	transcendence: which should, indeed, give us a
First Lord	The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
	Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
MACBETH	We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it:
	[Exit Gentleman]
	And let them know, both what we mean to do,
	That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
	Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so,
Clown	But it is your carbonadoed face.
	Under a hand accursed!
	And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
	that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
	[Enter a Messenger]
	wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
	relations to both houses; Maskers,
	These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
	To find the mind's construction in the face:
Fool	Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
	Out of a casement.
	[Noise within]
MACBETH	                  If we should fail?
	[Re-enter LADY MACBETH]
	He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
	Antony, and Potpan!
	The daughter of this lord?
	observation we have made of it hath not been
First Sailor	He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
	[Drawing his sword]
GUILDENSTERN	|
	No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
JULIET	Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
	Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
SCENE III	The French camp near Dover.
	and Attendants]
	Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact:
	Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
	Howe'er you come to know it, answer me:
	And finding him, the searchers of the town,
KING LEAR	Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
	sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
	Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
	Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
	Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
REGAN	Fare thee well.
	We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
	The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
	My operant powers their functions leave to do:
MACBETH	My dearest love,
	the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
	For wise men are grown foppish,
	And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
	Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
	What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
	warlike resistance.
	They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
MACBETH	                  You are, and do not know't:
BALTHASAR	Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
	Have they been merry! which their keepers call
KING CLAUDIUS	Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
	But never hope to know why I should marry her.
HAMLET	I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
	in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
MACDUFF	How does my wife?
	Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing,
	thy wrongs;
ACT III
	Cannot be well bestow'd.
HAMLET	Ay, sir, what of him?
	But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Fool	Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
	[Enter Nurse and PETER]
HECATE	O well done! I commend your pains;
	The more I have, for both are infinite.
	O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
	And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
ALBANY	Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
	To use his eyes for garden water-pots,
	Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
	Murderers, following her]
MACDUFF	And I must be from thence!
	This but begins the woe, others must end.
	The cod-piece that will house
	have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care
ROSS	Well, I will thither.
	Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
OSWALD	Madam, I had rather--
Clown	O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two
	Put strength enough to't.
	interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
	[Enter a Captain]
	And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
	Brother, a word; descend: brother, I say!
	not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him
LAERTES	I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
	Yet most suspected, as the time and place
	In this so sudden business.
	What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
	So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
	O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
	There shall no figure at such rate be set
	Full suddenly he fled.
	His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
	question for your residence.
	Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
	To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
	[Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN]
	Since now we will divest us both of rule,
	Your party in converse, him you would sound,
GLOUCESTER	Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
	And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
	Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave
	me like men:
	young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises,
ALBANY	Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame,
EDMUND	No, by mine honour, madam.
	To lay one in, another out to have.
	But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
	am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
YOUNG SIWARD	The devil himself could not pronounce a title
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Ay, amen!
DIANA	It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
OSWALD	Wherefore, bold peasant,
	When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
	And keep in-a-door,
	And pious action we do sugar o'er
FRIAR LAURENCE	Now must I to the monument alone;
OSWALD	Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
	But fathers that bear bags
	I'll fa you; do you note me?
HAMLET	What?
	liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
	When yond same star that's westward from the pole
	This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
	Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
ACT IV
	That chase thee from thy country and expose
	Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
	exclaim against their own succession?
	wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
	As notes whose faculties inclusive were
	Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
	Your wisdom best shall think.
	tell thee so before, because I would not fall out
	Whoever knocks!
	I would, while it was smiling in my face,
	Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
GONERIL	This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
	As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
	The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
	Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
	Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
	be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
	Tell me--but truly--but then speak the truth,
	while 'tis vendible; answer the time of request.
	Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
SIWARD	We learn no other but the confident tyrant
EDMUND	I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please
	O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell,
	And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer
	If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
	[Exeunt]
Gentleman	And you.
	Meeting were bare without it.
	Sepulchring an adultress.
	Till the prince came, who parted either part.
	almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so
ALL	So all.
	some strange thing toward, Edmund; pray you, be careful.
	I would have made them skip: I am old now,
BERTRAM	You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it:
	To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
	The inward service of the mind and soul
	This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
	The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
	fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
	no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
	Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
	The lists and full proportions, are all made
	Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
	And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss;
	The illness should attend it: what thou wouldst highly,
Clown	Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
ALBANY	My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant
LADY MACDUFF	Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
First Murderer	It was, so please your highness.
	to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were
ROSS	                  Wife, children, servants, all
	That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
	No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
	That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
	[Enter Nurse, to the chamber]
	Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
	And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
	It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
ROSS	Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
	I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
	pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my
	To be such men as may besort your age,
	If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
	Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
	Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
KING	Let us from point to point this story know,
CORNWALL	What mean'st by this?
	thousand pound. Didst perceive?
	Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;
		   Hark! more knocking.
	your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
ALBANY	How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:
LAFEU	Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news
	Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
	very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be
	soldiers and my young lady!
	[Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence attended;
	I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
	Come, some music!
	'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
HAMLET	So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
OSWALD	Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
CORDELIA	                  O, look upon me, sir,
	Which would be planted newly with the time,
	I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
	Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
ALBANY	Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
	Attendants]
SEYTON	The queen, my lord, is dead.
	Away, and for our flight.
Third Murderer	Macbeth.
HAMLET	As woman's love.
LENNOX	Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your highness?
	To such a greeting: villain am I none;
	If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body;
SCENE II	A field between the two camps.
	Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
SAMPSON	No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
	And hurt my brother.
LAERTES	                  Come, my lord.
	Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
	Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd and bold,
	The lamentable change is from the best;
	And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
	Must be my convoy in the secret night.
	To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
	For here we need it not.
PETER	You will not, then?
Servant	Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
	found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are
GLOUCESTER	A poor unfortunate beggar.
	Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
	should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
	Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
	Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
	Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
	For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
	Yea, from the table of my memory
Fool	He that has a house to put's head in has a good
	herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
	months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
	By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
CAPULET	Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
	A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
	And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
Widow	I have yielded:
HAMLET	How long is that since?
	At his head a grass-green turf,
OSRIC	I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
	Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
	May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
	a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
	[Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS,
First Servant	Away with the joint-stools, remove the
	I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
MENTEITH	|
	By having him, making yourself no less.
	unmannerly.
	Came more and more and fought on part and part,
SCENE III	Friar Laurence's cell.
	One that goes with him: I love him for his sake;
	Either his notion weakens, his discernings
KENT	With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
	Cut short all intermission; front to front
	She was too good for me: but, as I said,
	Please it this matron and this gentle maid
COUNTESS	Now, justice on the doers!
	More than in your addition.
	Where yet she never was.
Player Queen	O, confound the rest!
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
	to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of;
	this, give these fellows some means to the king:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
	shot out in our latter times.
HAMLET	Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
TYBALT	nephew to Lady Capulet.
	The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
	Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
	were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
	That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
MACBETH	I'll bring you to him.
	|
	Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
	Could not, with all their quantity of love,
	Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
	Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
	How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
	Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
	But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
	An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
	Could never plant in me.
EDGAR	He is gone, indeed.
	And that I'll spend for him.
	Take her, or leave her?
ALBANY	He is not here.
REGAN	One side will mock another; the other too.
GONERIL	My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
	[Exeunt]
	Life and death! I am ashamed
	He had the wit which I can well observe
	Those that we bury back, our monuments
	Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
COUNTESS	Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
KENT	It is the stars,
HELENA	Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
	Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
	to think!--
	Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
	I have lived long enough: my way of life
LADY CAPULET	I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
LAFEU	Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I
	Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
	For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
	You are the most immediate to our throne;
	And do not interrupt me in my course.
	To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
	To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
	Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
	and waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!
	Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
	In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
	Help, help! Call help.
	I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
ACT I
Nurse	I know not.
	Gall of goat, and slips of yew
	The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
	Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
	Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
TYBALT	Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
	Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
	sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this
	I think it best you married with the county.
	How does my good Lord Hamlet?
MERCUTIO	Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
	Herself poised with herself in either eye:
	to thy heart, and farewell.'
REGAN	I cannot think my sister in the least
JULIET	Blister'd be thy tongue
	Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine; fill full.
KING LEAR	Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's
	For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
SCENE VI	Camp before Florence.
	Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
	borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
BERTRAM	                  Some six months since, my lord.
	between that and my blood.
MACBETH	'Tis better thee without than he within.
EDMUND	I know no news, my lord.
KING	Is there no exorcist
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS,
	say him nay.
	A combination and a form indeed,
BENVOLIO	Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
	From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
	They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
	And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
Second Witch	When the hurlyburly's done,
	Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
	Unreal mockery, hence!
JULIET	What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
	But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
JULIET	Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
ROMEO	Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
	After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
	Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
	Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
	Apparitions.
	Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
	And come to deadly use.
	So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
	Safe toward your love and honour.
	on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
	and fathers declining, the father should be as
	Make we our march towards Birnam.
	One of my fellows had the speed of him,
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three]
	The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
	For so he said he would: I hear him near.
	But mice and rats, and such small deer,
ACT III
FRIAR LAURENCE	My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
First Lord	But you say she's honest.
MACBETH	Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
	hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
	By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
PAROLLES	Your pleasure, sir?
	And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
EDMUND	How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
	And hears it roar beneath.
Nurse	O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
MERCUTIO	You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
	Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
FRIAR LAURENCE	Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
	To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
	Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
	In the cauldron boil and bake;
	Wherein I thee endow'd.
	Is't far you ride?
HAMLET	Good.
	fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
BERTRAM	Admiringly, my liege, at first
	Than twenty silly ducking observants
GUILDENSTERN	There are the players.
	Over the nasty sty,--
HAMLET	Do not believe it.
BERTRAM	Both, both. O, pardon!
	That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
BERTRAM	Will she away to-night?
	Think true love acted simple modesty.
	By our remembrances of days foregone,
	(Third Apparition:)
	Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
	on my back forty eight.
		Knock,
	Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
Fool	No, faith, lords and great men will not let me; if
	ask you a question. Man is enemy to virginity; how
Gentleman	                  Sir, speed you: what's your will?
	I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
ROSS	|
	itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the
	Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well, then,
ROMEO	This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
PAROLLES	I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
	for my life.
	finds no other advantage in the process but only the
	Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
	Within the volume of which time I have seen
	As may compact it more. Get you gone;
	For it was bad enough before their spite.
	your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable
	Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
EDGAR	Or image of that horror?
	O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
DUNCAN	Great happiness!
LORD POLONIUS	And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
	That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
	That I have worn a visor and could tell
MACBETH	Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more:
	Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
First Witch	Where hast thou been, sister?
JULIET	Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
	This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
BERTRAM	There's letters from my mother: what the import is,
	Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
	Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
	With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
	Command upon me; to the which my duties
	[Thunder. Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE]
EDMUND	I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
KING LEAR	Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my
LADY MACBETH	We fail!
SCENE VI	Forres. The palace.
	To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
	by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
	O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
	[Exeunt]
	[Exit EDGAR]
	Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
	You Capulet; shall go along with me:
First Lord	                  So 'tis reported, sir.
GLOUCESTER	I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
JULIET	Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
	It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
KENT	A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
	For the contempt of empire.
	Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
	Sear'd otherwise; nay, worse--if worse--extended
	[Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN,
	End ere I do begin.
	My father as he slept, I had done't.
	MACBETH
	From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
ROMEO	Nurse!
First Soldier	[Reads]  'Demand of him, of what strength they are
EDMUND	I hear my father coming: pardon me:
ROMEO	How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
	That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
	Folded the writ up in form of the other,
	Still to return your own.
	Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot
	Will you draw near!
	Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
JULIET	Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
KING LEAR	My lord of Burgundy.
	And what's untimely done; so haply slander,
HAMLET	What's his weapon?
		  Thanks for your pains.
	To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
	How now! where's the king?
BERTRAM	Good morrow, noble captain.
KING LEAR	Am I in France?
	gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
JULIET	Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
	That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
HAMLET	An earnest conjuration from the king,
HELENA	Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me
KING LEAR	Read.
	Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
	Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
HELENA	O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
KING CLAUDIUS	[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
	There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
	That dost in vile misprision shackle up
	Might with effects of them follow our friends,
	How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
BERTRAM	Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
REGAN	Not altogether so:
LAFEU	Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not
BERTRAM	Hers it was not.
	Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
LAFEU	Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
	It waves you to a more removed ground:
	Upon the crown o' the cliff, what thing was that
	In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
	The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear;
	cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
	To hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hair
	Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
	And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
	Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
	the complaints I have heard of you I do not all
	He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
	Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
	Which even but now, demanding after you,
	that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
	That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
	And dotage terms so.
	Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
	When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
	Than in my thought it lies.
	How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
	What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
	And thou must make a dullard of the world,
HELENA	What I can do can do no hurt to try,
	instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
	Now, fellow, fare thee well.
	That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
		The raven himself is hoarse
	That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
MARCELLUS	                  We have sworn, my lord, already.
GREGORY	That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
	The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
First Clown	What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
	I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
EDGAR	What means that bloody knife?
	Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
	For beauty starved with her severity
	Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
PAROLLES	So I say.
	I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
	But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
Nurse	Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
EDGAR	Well pray you, father.
First Witch	Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
	Curbing his lavish spirit: and, to conclude,
	God send her quickly!
DIANA	Ay, my good lord.
	Only she comes too short: that I profess
REGAN	What need one?
COUNTESS	Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
	title age cannot bring thee.
	As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
	thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
	That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
	[Exeunt]
	To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
	Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
KENT	Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences:
	My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
	A sleeping potion; which so took effect
	[Exit]
	so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
	By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
LAERTES	My dread lord,
	so old to dote on her for any thing: I have years
	[Kisses him]
	hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
	But, if you hold it fit, after the play
	If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
	But shift away: there's warrant in that theft
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  So he does indeed.
	Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
HAMLET	But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
LAERTES	Do you see this, O God?
	The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
	[Re-enter GLOUCESTER]
Son	And be all traitors that do so?
KING LEAR	Darkness and devils!
	Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
	Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
	Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
	bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
	According to my bond; nor more nor less.
	And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
	o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
PAROLLES	'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
	Should be without regard: what's done is done.
	brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;
	Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
First Soldier	I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
	Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
	great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
	know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
	Fetch me a better answer.
	With my confineless harms.
	But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other;
	[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave]
PAROLLES	Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
	That copest with death himself to scape from it:
	But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
LAFEU	There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
	[Enter LAFEU]
	letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
	And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
	You, as your business and desire shall point you;
	Your eldest daughters have fordone them selves,
	The leisure of their answer; gave me cold looks:
	By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
	Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
BERTRAM	It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
	To do upon respect such violent outrage:
	Among nine bad if one be good,
PAROLLES	Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
	Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
	To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
	To your professed bosoms I commit him
	That ever penury, in contempt of man,
	A little month, or ere those shoes were old
	Attend his majesty!
	button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
	To this same place, to this same monument.
First Murderer	What, you egg!
	My truth and honour firmly.
	[Enter ALBANY]
	him: if you would not, it were a good sign
	way:
	The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
	Threaten his bloody stage: by the clock, 'tis day,
	Only in this disguise I think't no sin
	England! Farewell, dear mother.
Messenger	Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
	Like monsters of the deep.
	And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
	When judges have been babes; great floods have flown
	That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
	|  heads of two houses at variance with each other.
	Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian
First Lord	That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
KING LEAR	Come let's in all.
	But in it shares some woe; though the main part
	when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
	Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,
GONERIL	No.
	And his commission to employ those soldiers,
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son;
	I am a mother to you.
LAERTES	                  I pray you, give me leave.
	I come to tender it and my appliance
First Musician	Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
	expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
CORDELIA	So young, my lord, and true.
	Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
	to you.	Your unfortunate son,
	By indirections find directions out:
	Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumour
	My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
	Thy sheep shall take no harm.
	Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
	and debile minister, great power, great
Second Lord	No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
BALTHASAR	servant to Romeo.
PARIS	So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
OSWALD	Madam, with much ado:
	To cry 'Hold, hold!'
	If I say sooth, I must report they were
	Give me my sin again.
	With all my love I do commend me to you:
Gentleman	The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
HAMLET	Words, words, words.
FRANCISCO	Give you good night.
PAROLLES	This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
	When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
	'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
KING CLAUDIUS	I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
	The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
	I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
ACT IV
REGAN	Was he not companion with the riotous knights
	Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
	Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
	Courage to make 's love known?
ROMEO	As if that name,
	Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
LAFEU	I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
	[Enter EDGAR]
JULIET	I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
	Search every acre in the high-grown field,
MALCOLM	Macduff, this noble passion,
MERCUTIO	That dreamers often lie.
	Escaped the hunt. No port is free; no place,
GLOUCESTER	I have a letter guessingly set down,
	You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.
Old Man	'Tis poor mad Tom.
	And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
	Yes, 'faith heartily.
PARIS	That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
	Stretch him out longer.
	I pull in resolution, and begin
	in him, that with the mischief of your person it
KENT	I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
	That ever I was born to set it right!
BALTHASAR	Romeo.
	But I will delve one yard below their mines,
	To put an antic disposition on,
	His answer was 'The worse:' of Gloucester's treachery,
	What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia,--
ALBANY	                  Run, run, O, run!
	And to be baited with the rabble's curse.
	Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
	Make instruments to plague us:
LADY CAPULET	You are too hot.
	Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
ROMEO	At the hour of nine.
PAROLLES	France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
Second Lord	How deep?
	Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
	One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
FRIAR LAURENCE	I will be brief, for my short date of breath
	Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
	I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
	But under heavy judgment bears that life
	henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering.
	But may not be so credulous of cure,
	hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
DONALBAIN	What is amiss?
	me to the coming on of time, with 'Hail, king that
	the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation
First Musician	An you re us and fa us, you note us.
	For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
PAROLLES	Lose our drum! well.
	Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
HAMLET	Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
	But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
	When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
	[Giving a letter]
	There's place and means for every man alive.
	As did that one, and that, in my regard,
	The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
	Forced to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
	Hail, King of Scotland!
REGAN	Now, sweet lord,
BENVOLIO	Romeo will answer it.
HAMLET	Never to speak of this that you have seen,
	Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
	Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
KING LEAR	The bow is bent and drawn, make from the shaft.
HAMLET	Safely stowed.
	What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
	Whereto I have invited many a guest,
KING LEAR	Did I not, fellow?
	That I might be the organ.
	Of what hath moved you.
	[To PAROLLES]
LAFEU	Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
	Some private speech with you.
	Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws,
	Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
	[Exit]
	Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
LADY MACBETH	Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
	comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
	Derived from the ancient Capilet:
BENVOLIO	O noble prince, I can discover all
	thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
MALCOLM	We shall not spend a large expense of time
	And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
MONTAGUE	Both by myself and many other friends:
	'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
	Into the flame.
	[Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two
	and did the third a blessing against his will; if
	After he scores, he never pays the score:
	To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
	Fathers that wear rags
HAMLET	How came he mad?
	heritage: and I think I shall never have the
	|	What's the matter.
BANQUO	There if I grow,
	To be my child Cordelia.
	known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
LADY MACBETH	What, quite unmann'd in folly?
	And I beseech your majesty to make it
ROMEO	Here's goodly gear!
	To change the course: he's full of alteration
LORD POLONIUS	What said he?
TYBALT	This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
	Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
HAMLET	As thou'rt a man,
	'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
GONERIL	Hear me, my lord;
	are not mine.
	The main consents are had; and here we'll stay
	ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
	pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
	To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
	That made you break this enterprise to me?
	leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
	savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
ACT I
	'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
KING LEAR	No, I say.
	Makes wing to the rooky wood:
	And it must follow, as the night the day,
	thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
	Briefly thyself remember: the sword is out
	A Page. (Page:)
	Most choice, forsaken; and most loved, despised!
ROMEO	For your broken shin.
	the dukes; and a worse matter than that: I have
	That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
	[Exit]
	Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
PAROLLES	Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
	My liege, and madam, to expostulate
	[Exeunt]
	As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
	[Singing]
	To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
	In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
	I loved your father, and we love ourself;
	any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
	With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
	That memory, the warder of the brain,
BERTRAM	Let that go:
	Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	Where is this sight?
	The hateful mansion.
Nurse	O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
	The time will not allow the compliment
	I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
	It is a peerless kinsman.
KING	Methought you said
	[Exit]
	Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
	in's forehead.
	And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
	LENNOX, and Soldiers]
	Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
	His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
	A Herald.
	[Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR]
	your foins.
Clown	It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
	To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
		Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
	I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
ALBANY	Well, you may fear too far.
SCENE I	Paris. The KING's palace.
	That makes calamity of so long life;
	his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following]
	Can touch him further.
	Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
	beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
First Lord	You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
	no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
	[Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU]
	Your visitation shall receive such thanks
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
	be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
	By cock, they are to blame.
	Though well we may not pass upon his life
	poor king her father.
	Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
	If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
	Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
LAFEU	Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
JULIET	I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
ACT IV
	Some that will thank you, making just report
	Which else were shame, that then necessity
	His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
	It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
	The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
KING	                  Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
	From those that she calls servants or from mine?
	He may not, as unvalued persons do,
	And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
	That the life-weary taker may fall dead
	Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
	A good and virtuous nature may recoil
First Witch	I come, Graymalkin!
Clown	O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
LADY MACBETH	He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
	him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
	There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
	[Enter LENNOX]
	And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
EDMUND	Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
	Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
	Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
	[Enter TYBALT and others]
SCENE II	Fife. Macduff's castle.
	[He digs and sings]
	And top extremity.
GLOUCESTER	[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
	Which on more view, of many mine being one
MALCOLM	I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
	Now do you know the reason of this haste.
	falls from bias of nature; there's father against
	Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
	That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
ACT V
	The true blank of thine eye.
	But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
	philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
MACBETH	Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
CORNWALL	Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
	gentleman or a yeoman?
LENNOX	Ay, my good lord.
	Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
	But virtue, as it never will be moved,
	His son is thirty.
	Hath trifled former knowings.
	are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
	revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
	My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
	That we the pain of death would hourly die
	May soon return to this our suffering country
	morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
	[Descends]
	A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
HELENA	Tax of impudence,
Fool	Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
	his duchess will be here with him this night.
	dial is now upon the prick of noon.
	I gin to be aweary of the sun,
LADY MACBETH	That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
	Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
	any convenience, an he were double and double a
Fool	For, you trow, nuncle,
	New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
MACBETH	Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
	But let the frame of things disjoint, both the
	When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
	In honestest defence.
KING LEAR	What, fifty of my followers at a clap!
HELENA	I did so.
	We would not understand what was most fit;
	And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
	Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
	Our tears are not yet brew'd.
Doctor	Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
	To bring but five and twenty: to no more
	He that of greatest works is finisher
	So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
ROMEO	Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
	could see the puppets dallying.
	Stood challenger on mount of all the age
HAMLET	Alas, poor ghost!
	Like valour's minion carved out his passage
EDMUND	No, my lord.
GUILDENSTERN	The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
	Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
	Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
	That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
	To shield thee from diseases of the world;
	Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
	To make this creature fruitful!
	Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
	leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
	Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
LORD POLONIUS	[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
REGAN	                  That's as we list to grace him.
BERTRAM	I think she has: certain it is I liked her,
	Your most dear daughter--
KING CLAUDIUS	Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
	[Enter Priest, &c. in procession; the Corpse of
LAERTES	I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
	[Exeunt]
MARCELLUS	Holla! Bernardo!
	away,' &c]
LORD POLONIUS	                  That hath made him mad.
	This diamond he greets your wife withal,
	Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
	wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
	[To the Fool]
	His wonders and his praises do contend
HELENA	I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
LADY MACBETH:
	those which have walked in their sleep who have died
	Burst smilingly.
	[Exit]
ROMEO	What, shall I groan and tell thee?
	prayers. Fare you well, my lord; and believe this
	Uneven is the course, I like it not.
	Receive the ring again.
	you deny your griefs to your friend.
MACDUFF	See, who comes here?
	But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
	And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
	[Storm still]
	Already are i' the court.
BENVOLIO	Good-morrow, cousin.
	So speedily can venge! But, O poor Gloucester!
	Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
	[Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO]
	Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
	Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
	Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Widow	I am her mother, sir, whose age and honour
OSWALD	I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
	And I the matter will re-word; which madness
	For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
Second Lord	If the business be of any difficulty, and this
	is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
PARIS	Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
	Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
	An you call him a-down-a.
	For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
	The help of heaven we count the act of men.
	thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
KENT	Why, fool?
	be i' the camp, a Frenchman; what his reputation is
	The newest state.
	you are o' the commission,
TYBALT	I am for you.
	Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
	great fire; and the master I speak of ever keeps a
		    O, is this he?
KING LEAR	How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
	I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad,
Third Witch	Anon.
	fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
	O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
	Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Fool	If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs
	Till time and I think meet.
	Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
	With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
	What majesty should be, what duty is,
	To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
	And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
	Is it not well? What should you need of more?
	That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
	She knew her distance and did angle for me,
SCENE I	A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
ROMEO	A most courteous exposition.
	[Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two
	When sorrows come, they come not single spies
	That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
	To shake all cares and business from our age;
	Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
REGAN	O, sir, to wilful men,
ABRAHAM	No better.
HAMLET	O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
	But on us both did haggish age steal on
	Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	If none appear to prove upon thy head
	[Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting]
PAROLLES	Sir?
	Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife;
	[Dies]
	False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father;
	[Aside]
	That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
	She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
	Who I myself struck down; and thence it is,
	And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
TYBALT	What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
BERNARDO	I think it be no other but e'en so:
	To show us so much gentry and good will
	thy heels, and beat thee before the king? Draw, you
	To give some labourers room.
KING LEAR	No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse:
	I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
OSWALD	This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spared
	Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
	they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
	Is a reserved honesty, and that
	Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
	him, nor any way sustain him.
	their possets,
	is within a very little of nothing.
OPHELIA	Do you doubt that?
	All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
	players that I have seen play, and heard others
	You should not use me so.
	Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
	Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
	Leave thy drink and thy whore,
	No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
MACBETH	What news more?
	Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
HORATIO	I beseech you.
	My heart into my mouth: I love your majesty
	A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Why, how now, Hamlet!
HAMLET	Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
	To appease an angry god.
	What is the issue of the business there.
PAROLLES	I know you are the Muskos' regiment:
First Murderer	Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
	Lives in the English court, and is received
	Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
LAERTES	Let this be so;
	Sent forth great largess to your offices.
	home; there's part of a power already footed: we
	Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
GONERIL	Why not by the hand, sir? How have I offended?
	As love between them like the palm might flourish,
	It is my lady, O, it is my love!
	A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
	[Exeunt]
	Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
	When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
HAMLET	I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
	gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
	prediction; there's son against father: the king
	Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
	More honourable state, more courtship lives
	king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
	If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
ROSS	And Duncan's horses--a thing most strange and certain--
	night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
	Which but attends thy naming.
	And will he not come again?
	To show his grief: let her be round with him;
	Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
	and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
ROSS	No; they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
HAMLET	Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
	And I am proof against their enmity.
	Your tributary drops belong to woe,
	So horrid as in woman.
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, was your father dear to you?
	O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
	Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart:
	[Exeunt]
	'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
MACBETH	A friend.
LADY CAPULET	Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
	For these domestic and particular broils
	Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
LAFEU	You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't;
	I shall continue thankful.
	And of his old experience the oily darling,
Nurse	Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
	He but usurp'd his life.
KENT	No, my good lord; I am the very man,--
	We are yet but young in deed.
	On Thursday next be married to this county.
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
BANQUO	All's well.
	[Enter ROMEO]
	I'll do't before I speak,--that you make known
JULIET	Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
	Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
	for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
	This is the door.
	That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
	Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
	And play the humble host.
	'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
	those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
	there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
	that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
GLOUCESTER	Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:
ROMEO	Why, then is my pump well flowered.
	thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
	And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
	The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
	And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
	To County Paris, to prepare him up
	nothing, nuncle?
	Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
	Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
	Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
	To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
	And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
	Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
Fool	Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped
	[Enter ROMEO]
	Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
MACBETH	Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
	Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
	To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
	Cannot conceive nor name thee!
	Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
	For out o' doors he went without their helps,
	[Enter Apothecary]
	If it find heaven, must find it out to-night.
	On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
	Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
COUNTESS	Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
First Lord	In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
	But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
OPHELIA	O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
ROMEO	Out of her favour, where I am in love.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  Did he receive you well?
HELENA	Not my virginity yet [         ]
	And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
	A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
	Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
	On my particular. Prepared I was not
	And in the taste confounds the appetite:
	Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
OSWALD	Yes, madam.
	You mainly were stirr'd up.
	Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
HELENA	You see it lawful, then: it is no more,
	(Second Musician:)
EDGAR	[Aside]	How should this be?
GLOUCESTER	No words, no words: hush.
Third Witch	Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
Clown	By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
	Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
	About the world have times twelve thirties been,
	Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
	Oft does them by the weakest minister:
JULIET	Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
	Another ring, that what in time proceeds
	Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;
	The nature of his great offence is dead,
	adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	On plots and errors, happen.
	To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
	Or have we eaten on the insane root
	instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
	Or bid me go into a new-made grave
MARIANA	Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
	Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
	A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
PAROLLES	O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
HELENA	You are my mother, madam; would you were,--
	A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
LAFEU	Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once
	To the great sender turns a sour offence,
EDMUND	Not I	pray you, what are they?
	And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
ACT I
MACBETH	Thanks for that:
	Receive in either by this dear encounter.
	I think you are happy in this second match,
	For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
	Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
	and MARIANA, with other Citizens]
	To you they have show'd some truth.
	But to my mind, though I am native here
	And question this most bloody piece of work,
	the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
	KING LEAR
	hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
MACBETH	Can such things be,
	That she should lock herself from his resort,
PAROLLES	There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
	You have some cause, they have not.
	nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
	Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
	At the south entry: retire we to our chamber;
	The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
	porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
	[Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper]
	How now! what art thou?
	[Exit]
	Conspirant 'gainst this high-illustrious prince;
	your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
	Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
	And for your rapier most especially,
First Soldier	No, sir, I warrant you.
	Days and nights has thirty-one
	When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
ROMEO	By a name
	I recovered it.
	KING LEAR
	As thou my sometime daughter.
	To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
	Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
	Is this the man you speak of?
ROMEO	Good heart, at what?
	into amazement and admiration.
HORATIO	O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
	I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
	To see thy son and heir more early down.
ABRAHAM	You lie.
	To make thee seek it.'
HAMLET	Thou pray'st not well.
DIANA	                  I have spoke the truth.
HAMLET	Who commands them, sir?
	That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
MACDUFF	Turn, hell-hound, turn!
	And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
	nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
	As I intended, for it wrought on her
	[Reads]
	[Exit]
	Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
	lord: whom I serve above is my master.
	That I am guiltless of your father's death,
	And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
	Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
	What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
LAFEU	[Advancing]  Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
	Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
	Whose beauty did astonish the survey
	The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
	But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
MERCUTIO	True, I talk of dreams,
	That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
	It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
	That it was he in the times past which held you
MERCUTIO	Any man that can write may answer a letter.
	[A noise within]
	moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
	'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old;
	But, better look'd into, he truly found
	me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
	I'll visit you.
	To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
	I have my wish.
ROSENCRANTZ	Neither, my lord.
Gentlewoman	Directly.
	or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
	My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
KING CLAUDIUS	O heavy deed!
ROMEO	Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
	Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
EDGAR	From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
	With five and twenty, Regan? said you so?
LAERTES	Well; again.
	No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
	Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
	And, in thy best consideration, cheque
	off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
	I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
PAROLLES	[To BERTRAM]  Use a more spacious ceremony to the
	Before you visit him, to make inquire
	To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
	In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
	Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
KENT	Good my lord, take his offer; go into the house.
	maidenhood, cannot for all that dissuade succession,
	such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
	me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
	[Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman]
MACDUFF	         And all my children?
HELENA	That wishing well had not a body in't,
LUCIANUS	   Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
	What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
First Lord	But I am sure the younger of our nature,
	That dotage gives it.
MACDUFF	Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
	[Exit]
	facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
	Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
	Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
	And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
	And gave him what becomed love I might,
LORD POLONIUS	I will say so.
	And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
	OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING
REGAN	For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
	Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too;
	To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
	He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
	[Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire]
BERTRAM	I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in
	more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
	gracious Duncan
	And after slew herself.
MERCUTIO	Nay, I'll conjure too.
	in the oppression of aged tyranny; who sways, not
COUNTESS	'Tis past, my liege;
LAFEU	Ay; is it not a language I speak?
	We have this hour a constant will to publish
	merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
	well, sir.
ROSS	Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
GREGORY	The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
	To talk of your good father. In his youth
	Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
	Which you will wonder at.
	northerly.
	My oath, and my profession: I protest,
	O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
	Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
	Where we shall find him most conveniently.
	Shakes so my single state of man that function
	But that myself should be the root and father
GLOUCESTER	Pursue him, ho! Go after.
Son	What is a traitor?
	I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
	but by a metaphor.
	It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
KING LEAR	Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
	The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
	Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
	For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
	Did lack a parallel; yet for all that
BERTRAM	[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
KING CLAUDIUS	Ay, Hamlet.
	Exception bid him speak, and at this time
	Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
	Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
	Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
	Come, help to bear thy master;
	Our means secure us, and our mere defects
	Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men
ROSS	Alas, the day!
EDGAR	[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
	Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
	Been well inform'd of them; and with such cautions,
	But where the greater malady is fix'd,
	And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
	out the villain Gloucester.
	melancholy man.
	He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
	Who I'll entreat to lead me.
	KING LEAR
	Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
	While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
	And turn his sleep to wake.
	Call, good Mercutio.
ANGUS	|
HAMLET	You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
	Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
	Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
	That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
BERTRAM	Our interpreter does it well.
	thrive long under her? There's a quart d'ecu for
Doctor	I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
	it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
	uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
ROMEO	Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
	For this night's watching.
	To be contracted in one brow of woe,
	Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
	Pursued my life.
	serve him still.
	signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
	body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here
	[Enter another Gentleman]
Nurse	A man, young lady! lady, such a man
	fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
	The terms of our estate may not endure
ROMEO	Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
	Are not the question here.
	But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
	but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
	[Throws up a skull]
	Not cast aside so soon.
	| We'll wait upon you.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
KING LEAR	What hast thou been?
	HAMLET
	For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
LAFEU	I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor
	brother till you can derive from him better
	[Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA]
	By any token of presumptuous suit;
	Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
	That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
OPHELIA	You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
	mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
	Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
	I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
	going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
	one.
ROMEO	                  No matter: get thee gone,
	[Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch]
	and Attendants]
HORATIO	So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
GLOUCESTER	There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
	I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
Doctor	Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
HELENA	That I am not.
LADY MONTAGUE	wife to Montague.
	gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
	written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
	That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
LAERTES	To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
	To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
	'Here may you see the tyrant.'
QUEEN GERTRUDE	For love of God, forbear him.
	If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
	And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
	me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
	Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,
	Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
	If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
	if you do stir abroad, go armed.
	The numbers of our host and make discovery
HAMLET	Come on, sir.
	[Enter a Messenger]
	And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
	perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
ACT IV
ACT III
	No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
	I am from humble, he from honour'd name;
	Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
	Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
	Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
Lord	He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
	shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
	It is the bloody business which informs
CORDELIA	Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
	Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
	As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
	and Gratii, two hundred and fifty each; mine own
	The devil himself.
ROMEO	The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
	Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
KENT	No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
	And bids what will take all.
Gentleman	You shall have any thing.
	though this knave came something saucily into the
HAMLET	O, throw away the worser part of it,
Servant	Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
	To leave no rubs nor botches in the work--
	Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
	May all the building in my fancy pluck
	Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the Tiger:
	May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
	Friends of my soul, you twain
HORATIO	A truant disposition, good my lord.
	The news of thy success; and when he reads
	Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
	But mere implorators of unholy suits,
	From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
OSRIC	I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
	the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
GLOUCESTER	Is it a beggar-man?
COUNTESS	Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
	And not where I had aim'd them.
	We'll put the matter to the present push.
	How oft when men are at the point of death
	But I will write again to Mantua,
CORNWALL	I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
GLOUCESTER	Let him fly far:
	Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
Second Lord	Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
	They know not how their wits to wear,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	MACBETH
	Are gone with him towards Dover; where they boast
	With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
	And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
	In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
	I would adventure for such merchandise.
	More sinn'd against than sinning.
	The shame which here it suffers.
SCENE II	Capulet's orchard.
First Soldier	If you could find out a country where but women were
	But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
	But keep a farm and carters.
GLOUCESTER	But have I fall'n, or no?
	Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
	We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
	three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
	Of his affection to me.
HORATIO	Half a share.
	it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
HAMLET	Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
	That I must love a loathed enemy.
	How now! what news?
	be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
	hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
	Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
HAMLET	'The mobled queen?'
	Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
	| [Within]  My lord, my lord,--
REGAN	Jesters do oft prove prophets.
BENVOLIO	By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
	[Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA]
	and honourable personages than the commission of your
	Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
	That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
	Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
	This present summons?
	believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
	And the continuance of their parents' rage,
KENT	With the earl, sir, here within.
	With tristful visage, as against the doom,
	Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
BENVOLIO	Am I like such a fellow?
	[Exit]
HAMLET	No, not I;
	[Exeunt, marching]
	a farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
	Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
	Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
	The knowledge of themselves.
JULIET	Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
HAMLET	O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
BERTRAM	I shall obey his will.
First Soldier	What's he?
	rarity redeems him.
PAROLLES	Why think you so?
	a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing,
	Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
	likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
	More potent than the first.
LADY MACBETH	These deeds must not be thought
	In thee there is not half an hour of life;
	A braving war.
	Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
LAFEU	          He cannot want the best
BENVOLIO	The what?
	lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
	And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
	is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to
	MACBETH
	That wants the means to lead it.
LORD POLONIUS	Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
	I'll bring you comfort.
	New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
	And young affection gapes to be his heir;
	Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
	Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
	You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
	with us to the king.
	here acquired for him shall at home be encountered
	jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
	And let mischance be slave to patience.
	No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
	And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
LORD POLONIUS	And let him ply his music.
	Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
	Is my dear son with such sour company:
	uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
	Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
SCENE IV	A room in Capulet's house.
	like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court:
	As they fell out by time, by means and place,
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
	For I have need of many orisons
	Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Messenger	So please you, it is true: our thane is coming:
	To keep it from divulging, let it feed
	Together with the terror of the place,--
	White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
	I dare abide no longer.
ROSENCRANTZ	Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
EDGAR	Sit you down, father; rest you
	Drabbing: you may go so far.
	Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
	All is but toys: renown and grace is dead;
	Stick deep; and in his royalty of nature
	The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
	I did commend your highness' letters to them,
	My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
	higher, or return again into France?
	Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
ROSENCRANTZ	How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
	Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
	Your needful counsel to our business,
HELENA	No, my good lord;
	Good night.
ROMEO	Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
	have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
	Now falls on Priam.
	Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
	lady mother I am returning; entertained my convoy;
	flesh ye; come on, young master.
	Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
	At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
	Without more motive, into every brain
	him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him,
LAERTES	It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
	tell my daughter I would speak with her.
	I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
	Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
	To stand on either part.
FLEANCE	The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
	[Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
MARCELLUS	My good lord--
BENVOLIO	Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
	Myself an enemy to all other joys,
	leave me: stall this in your bosom; and I thank you
LADY MACBETH	Know you not he has?
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
HORATIO	My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
	Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he
	MACBETH
	[Exit Romeo]
	That I did kill them.
	At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
	As checking at his voyage, and that he means
	the rector of the place.
	Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
MACBETH	We will proceed no further in this business:
HAMLET	I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
	The extravagant and erring spirit hies
	But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
	Than fly to others that we know not of?
	tongues else for's turn.
	The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
	When therewithal we shall have cause of state
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
	But let his disposition have that scope
SCENE V	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
	How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
	[Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS]
MACBETH	I'll put it on.
ROMEO	Good morrow, father.
	the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
	A visor for a visor! what care I
COUNTESS	I play the noble housewife with the time
	Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
	And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
HAMLET	Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
KENT	Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain:
	dearer father in my love.
	When Lear is mad. What wilt thou do, old man?
	Having some business, do entreat her eyes
KENT	If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
	scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
Nurse	Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
	One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
	The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
	To the dark house and the detested wife.
	How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
	On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
ROMEO	Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
KENT	Who hath he left behind him general?
	Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
	soul of this man is his clothes. Trust him not in
	His nighted life: moreover, to descry
	Nurse! What should she do here?
	to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
	a French hose: come in, tailor; here you may
	Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
	Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
	When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
COUNTESS	In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
	My father is not dead, for all your saying.
	my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
	Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
	From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
	[Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO]
	Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
LAFEU	Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I
SCENE V	Paris. The KING's palace.
	Not bolds the king, with others, whom, I fear,
	But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
	[Enter ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, with five or six
	duke's brother.
	I have no joy of this contract to-night:
KENT	What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
	Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
BERTRAM	I am commanded here, and kept a coil with
GLOUCESTER	Ay, sir.
	[Takes a sword, and runs at him behind]
SCENE	Denmark.
	[Exeunt Attendants]
HAMLET	There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
	Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
	heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
GUILDENSTERN	O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
	It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
EDGAR	Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
	But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
LADY CAPULET	So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
	Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
	Look what I have.
	Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
	yield them,
GONERIL	[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
	trust my judgment in any thing.
CAPULET	O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
	providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
	that he is?
	My life were better ended by their hate,
Clown	One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her
	[Exeunt]
	Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
HAMLET	To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
	To call hers exquisite, in question more:
	So loving-jealous of his liberty.
	To pluck his indignation on thy head
EDMUND	                  Yet Edmund was beloved:
	Set your entreatments at a higher rate
	Look there, look there!
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	As one incapable of her own distress,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Romeo!
	[Bell rings]
BENVOLIO	In love?
	You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
	For there was never yet fair woman but she made
	[Enter PRINCE, with Attendants]
	Rather corrupt me ever!
LAERTES	                  The devil take thy soul!
	Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
	There is my pledge;
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
	If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
PETER	Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
	Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
DIANA	No, my good lord, Diana.
	many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian, Cosmo, Lodowick,
	The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
Son	Thou liest, thou shag-hair'd villain!
HAMLET	Pale or red?
	constrains a man to bow in the hams.
	Though I die for it, as no less is threatened me,
		      How does the king?
Widow	Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we
CORNWALL	Keep peace, upon your lives:
	[Reads]
	That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
OSWALD	My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:
	And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
	Which, for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise,
	Unsafe the while, that we
	[Enter MACBETH, SEYTON, and Soldiers, with drum
Nurse	I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
	is mad, and sent into England.
	And madly play with my forefather's joints?
LADY MACBETH	If he had been forgotten,
	[Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM,
	earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
HAMLET	It will be short: the interim is mine;
	for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
JULIET	Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
BERTRAM	He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
	Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
	time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
	for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
	And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
	No more to undertake it, I will work him
	dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a
	In the affliction of these terrible dreams
	no good to us: though the wisdom of nature can
BERTRAM	Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
LADY CAPULET	Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
	I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
	And with some sweet oblivious antidote
	These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
	Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
	chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
ROMEO	And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
	I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
First Witch	Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
	As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
	course; where, if you violently proceed against
LAFEU	Not to be helped,--
LADY CAPULET	What say you? can you love the gentleman?
	If I did stay to look on his intents.
PAROLLES	Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
	My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
GLOUCESTER	The king is mad: how stiff is my vile sense,
MARCELLUS	It faded on the crowing of the cock.
	[Exit, attended]
	To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
	The subject of our watch.
MERCUTIO	No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
HORATIO	Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
EDGAR	What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
	Question enrages him. At once, good night:
	That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
	But farewell it, for I will use no art.
	That which my father loses; no less than all:
	Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
	Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
	To you in satisfaction; but if not,
	In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
	Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
	Old fools are babes again; and must be used
PRINCE	This letter doth make good the friar's words,
	Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
HORATIO	I warrant it will.
	Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
	Each small annexment, petty consequence,
	And in his commendations I am fed;
COUNTESS	What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah:
	For I come hither arm'd against myself:
	To see another thus. I know not what to say.
	There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled
	We will require her welcome.
KING	Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
	For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
	nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two
	And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
PARIS	Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
	And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
	Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
	Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.
MACBETH	As I descended?
	To saucy doubts and fears. But Banquo's safe?
	Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
	The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
	And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
	For it must seem their guilt.
	Most necessary 'tis that we forget
	O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
KENT	Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
Second Lord	We cannot afford you so.
	you something to know it.
	It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
	To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
	come unbutton here.
	kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and
KING LEAR	Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I
LADY MACBETH	To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
	Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
	O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
First Watchman	Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
	But Ajax is their fool.
	We must, with all our majesty and skill,
	If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
	the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
	From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
	The which immediacy may well stand up,
	[Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and
	Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
	Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
CORDELIA	I yet beseech your majesty,--
	For it excels your first: or if it did not,
HELENA	My lord your son made me to think of this;
	on he has the cramp.
BERTRAM	Thank your majesty.
	Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
	Be not her maid, since she is envious;
	Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
	But every man betake him to his legs.
	Does lecher in my sight.
KING LEAR	Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
KENT	See better, Lear; and let me still remain
	Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
	Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
KING CLAUDIUS	The doors are broke.
	That most are busied when they're most alone,
	An Old Man
	The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
	Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
Nurse	God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
	To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
	Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
MACBETH	How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
	My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
	Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
LORD POLONIUS	Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
	They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
Gentleman	Though that the queen on special cause is here,
	by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
Gentleman	She is importunate, indeed distract:
HAMLET	Ay, marry, is't:
	Perform what you command us.
KING CLAUDIUS	I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
POLONIUS	lord chamberlain. (LORD POLONIUS:)
	French Lords, with Attendants]
	be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
	False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?
	By sending me a letter? Read it again.
Third Witch	Show!
	With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
	Was never call'd to bear my part,
	I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
KING CLAUDIUS	We will try it.
	And at our more consider'd time well read,
BANQUO	                  Look, how our partner's rapt.
	Is thought-sick at the act.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
	Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
MALCOLM	But I have none: the king-becoming graces,
	It is my will, the which if thou respect,
	As that is desperate which we would prevent.
	That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
ALBANY	Sir, by your patience,
Gentleman	I have been sometimes there.
	Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
	For, by the image of my cause, I see
	The sweet and bitter fool
	And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
MACBETH	The table's full.
	Know'st thou this paper?
	Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
	brought it?
	Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
SAMPSON	|
JULIET	You kiss by the book.
	To apply to his bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!
	kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
	Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
	Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
	Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
	Stand in hard cure.
PAROLLES	Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel.
BENVOLIO	There lies that Tybalt.
KING LEAR	Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
BERNARDO	Say,
	Would have reverted to my bow again,
	And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
	Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
ALBANY	Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
	To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
	Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
	To make me hunger more; that I should forge
	What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
	Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
BERNARDO	It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
	To an impatient child that hath new robes
	All is well ended, if this suit be won,
Captain	They are of Norway, sir.
	I find she names my very deed of love;
	Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
	As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
	And on your finger in the night I'll put
	Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
	As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
	What company, at what expense; and finding
BERTRAM	Your brother he shall go along with me.
	Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
	Must make content with his fortunes fit,
	And I for sorrow sung,
HAMLET	Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
	And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
REGAN	Sir, being his knave, I will.
Second Murderer	A light, a light!
CORNWALL	What trumpet's that?
	She is herself a dowry.
	But misery: I know 'tis from Cordelia,
	A' was a merry man--took up the child:
	To trade and traffic with Macbeth
	[Enter MACBETH]
Clown	But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned
CORDELIA	Good my lord,
	Black and portentous must this humour prove,
BANQUO	How goes the night, boy?
	such volubility, that you would think truth were a
	Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
	I never yet was valiant: for this business,
	And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
Nurse	Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
	And, to the last, bended their light on me.
KENT	Fellow, I know thee.
	It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
BENVOLIO	Part, fools!
	[Exit]
KING LEAR	Because they are not eight?
	For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Gentleman	They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
	Servants to Cornwall.
	pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
	Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
LADY MACBETH	Ay.
	Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
	You and your fellows; I'll have it come to question:
	From the first corse till he that died to-day,
MACBETH	Good morrow, both.
KING	Here is my hand; the premises observed,
	Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
	friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
KENT	Yes.
	[Exeunt]
	Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
PAROLLES	I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
	To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
	As day does to your eye.
	Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
HORATIO	As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
	And with presented nakedness out-face
	O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
	To take him in the purging of his soul,
