	And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss;
	that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
Gentleman	Near and on speedy foot; the main descry
	Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
	Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
HAMLET	What, look'd he frowningly?
	My life were better ended by their hate,
	for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman
	All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
	Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
	i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
MACBETH	If thou speak'st false,
	Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
	Which shows me many more; and some I see
	I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
	Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
CAPULET	How canst thou try them so?
MALCOLM	He's worth more sorrow,
HAMLET	Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
	Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
	| My lord, we will not.
	My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
Porter	'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
	[Music and a song: 'Black spirits,' &c]
	To tell him that his sword can never win
DIANA	I never gave it him.
	[Enter HAMLET]
	Into the service of the time and was
	Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
	This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
	of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
	I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
KENT	Alack, bare-headed!
	the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
	Back do I toss these treasons to thy head;
DIANA	It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
MALCOLM	                  The worthy thane of Ross.
	Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
	If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
GLOUCESTER	Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
Widow	If you shall please so, pilgrim.
	For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
	unhappily; as of unnaturalness between the child
COUNTESS	This was your motive
	Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and
Captain	I will do't, my lord.
	a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
	made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
	Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
	the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
First Soldier	Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
	his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
	The untimely emptying of the happy throne
	Repast them with my blood.
	Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
	Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
JULIET	Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
	By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
HAMLET	Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
	Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters' blessing:
ACT III
	For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp,
	When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
	O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
ALL	Listen, but speak not to't.
	Against our borrowing prayers.
	France spreads his banners in our noiseless land;
	Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Now must I to the monument alone;
	though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
	But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
	In our heart's table; heart too capable
	To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
PAROLLES	O, let me live!
	Alone, in company, still my care hath been
SCENE I	Dunsinane. Ante-room in the castle.
	This night to play before him.
	ones I dare not give. Wherefore, what's the
First Soldier	If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
	Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
	And so, God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
	Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
FRIAR LAURENCE	I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
	[Exit]
Clown	You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a
	when she put 'em i' the paste alive; she knapped 'em
	And I beseech you instantly to visit
	[Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
DIANA	'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
First Musician	What a pestilent knave is this same!
First Clown	One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
	His nighted life: moreover, to descry
First Soldier	He calls for the tortures: what will you say
Second Lord	I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
	Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off;
	Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
	have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
	To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
	You owe this strange intelligence? or why
	[Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET]
Clown	Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
	harmony; I have not the skill.
	taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
	O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
	And then my husband--God be with his soul!
	Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
	Will nothing stick our person to arraign
	The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
	[Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and
MERCUTIO	Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
	'spare not me?' Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very
	MACBETH
	Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
	SIWARD, MACDUFF, MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS,
	To pray for this good man and for his issue,
	Thee they may hurt.
	return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
	A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
	How doth my lady? Is my father well?
	The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
	That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
	With true observance seek to eke out that
BANQUO	Look to the lady:
	I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone:
	Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
	will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deniest
MACBETH	                  I am settled, and bend up
	|  generals of the king's army.
	Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
	It is not so with Him that all things knows
	Which I have told thee of my father's death:
	I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
First Clown	Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
	[Giving a favour]
EDGAR	son to Gloucester.
	KING LEAR
QUEEN GERTRUDE	How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
	And bear this work of heaven with patience:
EDMUND	This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
	With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
	Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
	the attempt I vow.
LADY MACBETH	These deeds must not be thought
HELENA	That wishing well had not a body in't,
	Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
CURAN	And you, sir. I have been with your father, and
	(Third Servant:)
	Remains in danger of her former tooth.
	[Dies. FLEANCE escapes]
	And gave you such a masterly report
	When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
	Methinks thy voice is alter'd; and thou speak'st
	If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
	Deadly divorce step between me and you!
	Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
	Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
	[Exit]
GONERIL	Come, sir,
	The memory be green, and that it us befitted
	We would not understand what was most fit;
	Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
JULIET	Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
	from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
Gentlewoman	Why, it stood by her: she has light by her
	pronounced:
JULIET	O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
ROMEO	Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
	The more I have, for both are infinite.
	Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
	night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
	If both remain alive: to take the widow
	her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it,
	the dukes he values most; for equalities are so
	Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
	Blessing upon you!
	of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
	How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
	Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
	Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
	of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
CAPULET	O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
	That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
MALCOLM	Be comforted:
	flesh ye; come on, young master.
SIWARD	Some must go off: and yet, by these I see,
HAMLET	Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
LAERTES	My lord, I will be ruled;
	That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
	Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
	Therefore great France
	As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
	Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
	Their hands and faces were an badged with blood;
	Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
	Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
	Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
CORNWALL	o with me to the duchess.
	[Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
OPHELIA	The king rises.
	as if you would drive me into a toil?
	Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
PAROLLES	Thirty fathom.
	So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
	I stay too long: but here my father comes.
	The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
	that's the end.
	He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
	So horrid as in woman.
	a sorrow than have it.
	That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
	Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
	When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
	I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
	her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not'
	I think it best you married with the county.
KING LEAR	O, cry your mercy, sir.
HORATIO	Do not, my lord.
	kernel out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond and
	What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
	Our eldest-born, speak first.
	Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
	That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
	That most are busied when they're most alone,
	for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
	[A banquet prepared. Enter MACBETH, LADY MACBETH,
	Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers,
	and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and
	GUILDENSTERN, and others]
	[Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown]
BANQUO	All's well.
	And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
		  Now I am alone.
	Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu,
	Two such opposed kings encamp them still
	May sweep to my revenge.
	We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee: mark.
All	Treason! treason!
	I will preserve myself: and am bethought
	For it was bad enough before their spite.
	His equal had awaked them, and his honour,
SCENE I	A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
	Under the allowance of your great aspect,
ROMEO	Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
	Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
ROMEO	[To JULIET]  If I profane with my unworthiest hand
	Nor thine on me.
	That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
	With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
	And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late;
	Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
	Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
	Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
	Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
SIWARD	                  Why then, God's soldier be he!
	Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
	For women's fear and love holds quantity;
ROMEO	Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
	Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
	'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
	Your lady's love against some other maid
ROMEO	Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Clown	     Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
All	                  Our duty to your honour.
	Out of his lunacies.
	With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
	Give you good morrow!
	royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
	Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
	more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
LADY MONTAGUE	wife to Montague.
REGAN	Prescribe not us our duties.
	Let us impart what we have seen to-night
	Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,
First Gentleman	A servant only, and a gentleman
	And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
	'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
OPHELIA	I was the more deceived.
HORATIO	Well, sit we down,
	On wholesome life usurp immediately.
	And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pain.
First Clown	Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Clown	But it is your carbonadoed face.
	A Herald.
	If seriously I may convey my thoughts
	For Hecuba!
	When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
	Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
	I pull in resolution, and begin
HAMLET	Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
MARCELLUS	[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
	An you call him a-down-a.
	The oldest hath borne most: we that are young
	For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
KENT	Vex not his ghost: O, let him pass! he hates him much
LAERTES	Let this be so;
	Or never after look me in the face:
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ,
	And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
	Where is your mother?'
	Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
	But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
	evidence; therefore stand aside.
CORDELIA	Will't please your highness walk?
	Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
	It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
	With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart;
	Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
	Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
	Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
	That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
	world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
	That copest with death himself to scape from it:
KING LEAR	Do.
	Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
	that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
ACT IV
	Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the
KING CLAUDIUS	It falls right.
	Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
	Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
	Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
SCENE VII	Macbeth's castle.
	That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
GLOUCESTER	I would have all well betwixt you.
DUNCAN	Welcome hither:
	Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
	Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
HELENA	What's his name?
	Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
		The raven himself is hoarse
	Ere I again behold my Romeo!
KING	Where did you find it, then?
	and GUILDENSTERN]
	For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
	I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
	Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
HELENA	                  Do not you love him, madam?
	the honest men and hang up them.
ALBANY	See thyself, devil!
	must give myself some hurts, and say I got them in
	And I for sorrow sung,
	shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
First Soldier	Shall I set down your answer so?
	Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
LENNOX	And that well might
ROMEO	Ay me! sad hours seem long.
	Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
	Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.
SCENE	Britain.
	You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
	Never was seen so black a day as this:
	as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for
	Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
	Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
	My love should kindle to inflamed respect.
	[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave]
	Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
	That no compunctious visitings of nature
	And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
	Will I with wine and wassail so convince
Clown	A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
	Above the rest, be gone.
	Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
MALCOLM	Be this the whetstone of your sword: let grief
MALCOLM	I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
	If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
First Lord	It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in
	On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
	But send him back.
	I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
	But first I beg my pardon, the young lord
	Which in his death were perfect.
	shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
	In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
	(First Citizen:)
ACT I
	(Messenger:)
	[Exit]
	[To EDGAR and KENT]
	Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
	When therewithal we shall have cause of state
	Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
	And, in thy best consideration, cheque
	The multiplying villanies of nature
	nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
	Already at a point, was setting forth.
	A fox, when one has caught her,
	and father. This villain of mine comes under the
	Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
	I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
QUEEN GERTRUDE	It may be, very likely.
	Those in commission yet return'd?
	What guests were in her eyes; which parted thence,
	[Exit]
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
KING LEAR	What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
	daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
	but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
	As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
	Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
OSWALD	I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
	diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation
	nothing, nuncle?
KING LEAR	This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
	Whose voices I desire aloud with mine:
HELENA	Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
	I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
MACDUFF	My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
	Put on with holy prayers: and 'tis spoken,
	Come forth.
	Cannot be border'd certain in itself;
	Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
	And makes us rather bear those ills we have
	That we find out the cause of this effect,
	That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
	Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
	But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
	And Regan with him: have you nothing said
	Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
GLOUCESTER	He that will think to live till he be old,
GREGORY	The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
	[Exeunt]
	finds no other advantage in the process but only the
	Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
	glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue;
Player King	   I do believe you think what now you speak;
	And turn his sleep to wake.
	And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
	Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
	lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
	But in it shares some woe; though the main part
	Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
Fool	Lear's shadow.
	[Enter ROMEO]
JULIET	daughter to Capulet.
	butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
	May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
	If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
KING	If he were living, I would try him yet.
	The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
	I have more care to stay than will to go:
	And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
LAERTES	Well; again.
	encounter Tybalt?
SAMPSON	Well, sir.
	Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put
	[Enter ROMEO]
	Though inclination be as sharp as will:
	if you do stir abroad, go armed.
Second Lord	'Twould not do.
	stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
REGAN	|  daughters to Lear.
GONERIL	[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
	In the affliction of these terrible dreams
	So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
	[Aside]
	Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
	[Exit]
EDMUND	bastard son to Gloucester.
REGAN	Not altogether so:
	And world's exile is death: then banished,
	time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
BALTHASAR	I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
Clown	My poor body, madam, requires it: I am driven on
LAFEU	Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
	Like the poor cat i' the adage?
MACBETH	Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits:
HAMLET	Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
	With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
JULIET	Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
	Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword
	Is very good meat in lent
ROMEO	Is she a Capulet?
	of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
	And all to all.
PARIS	O, I am slain!
	Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
	Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
First Clown	You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
	To put an antic disposition on,
	Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
	Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
	That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
LENNOX	The night has been unruly: where we lay,
	world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
	I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
	And not from one opposed.
GLOUCESTER	I see it feelingly.
	that he comes not along with her.
	I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
	And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
	fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
	By those that feel their sharpness:
	In argument of praise, or to the worth
	with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and
	But yet I call you servile ministers,
	[POLONIUS hides behind the arras]
	To come between our sentence and our power,
	Which smoked with bloody execution,
First Clown	It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
MACBETH	Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
	Untimely ripp'd.
	I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
	And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
	Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
HAMLET	If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
ROMEO	Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, and EDGAR dressed like a peasant]
	Those he commands move only in command,
	For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
KING CLAUDIUS	A very riband in the cap of youth,
	The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
	behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be
	That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
	they are married: but thou art too fine in thy
	(First Witch:)
	his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following]
KING	Come, come, to the purpose: did he love this woman?
	Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
	With terrible numbers,
First Lord	There's honour in the theft.
	I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
	Fond done, done fond,
	Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
	for my life.
	Have follow'd your sad steps.
	My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding,
	Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
	I take my leave at once.
MALCOLM	Be't their comfort
	be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which
	As infinite as man may undergo--
	That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
	And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
	Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
	Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
	Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
	[Enter KENT and a Gentleman]
	Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
	[Exeunt]
	No!
KENT	I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
Gentleman	A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
	Was kinder to his father than my daughters
		          Awake, awake!
	I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester:
BERTRAM	She never saw it.
	'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
ACT IV
	O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
	I'll to my rest.
	She had her breeding at my father's charge.
	you to suspend your indignation against my
	Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
		                  How now, Oswald!
Fool	Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece; that's a wise
	So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
OPHELIA	Madam, I wish it may.
	Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
	Into the madness wherein now he raves,
	[Exit BANQUO]
HAMLET	No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
	And yet, to my teeth be it spoken, I have but four--
	Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
	'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
	Of differences, which I least thought it fit
	If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
	makes her story true, even to the point of her
Son	Who must hang them?
CORNWALL	I now perceive, it was not altogether your
ACT II
	I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
	set this counterfeit.
	With his prepared sword, he charges home
	His son is thirty.
	[Enter ROMEO]
	Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
	In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
	Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
	Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
	What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
First Witch	When shall we three meet again
	And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
	You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
	[Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES]
	The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
	[Exeunt]
	To doff their dire distresses.
	Sirrah, a word with you: attend those men
MERCUTIO	Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
	Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
	If ever you disturb our streets again,
	With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
Gentleman	They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
	Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
	A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
	So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
	To merit bliss by making me despair:
DIANA	If you shall marry,
	Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
HAMLET	Bid the players make haste.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	When others are more wicked: not being the worst
	[Enter LADY MACDUFF, her Son, and ROSS]
	But he's an arrant knave.
KING LEAR	No, no, they would not.
MALCOLM	But I have none: the king-becoming graces,
	I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
	I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
CAITHNESS	Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
Porter	Here's a knocking indeed! If a
	And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
LAFEU	And shall do so ever, though I took him at 's
	transgressed against his valour; and my state that
	I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	Attend his majesty!
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	To mend it, or be rid on't.
PAROLLES	[Aside]  I'll no more drumming; a plague of all
	Many for many virtues excellent,
	Savagely slaughter'd: to relate the manner,
	morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
ROMEO	Good morrow, father.
	What is't you do?
ROSS	Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
	To press before thy father to a grave?
	That presently you take our way for home;
LORD POLONIUS	And let him ply his music.
	Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
	That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
	To you yourself, to us, to every one.
	A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
KENT	Why, fool?
LADY CAPULET	Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
	[They fight]
	With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
	At market-price have bought.
	he's a cat to me.
	Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer;
	Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
JULIET	If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
	Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
	When the rash mood is on.
	And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
	Farewell, dear father!
	Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
	New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
	our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his
	All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
	Hamlet the Dane.
	By our remembrances of days foregone,
	him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
	A plague upon your epileptic visage!
	Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
OSWALD	A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
	And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
KENT	Who's there?
	Of the death practised duke: for him 'tis well
	A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
First Gentleman	Save you, good madam.
PETER	servant to Juliet's nurse.
	My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
	Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
	Command upon me; to the which my duties
	And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,
	indict the author of affectation; but called it an
	'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries.
	Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
	I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
BALTHASAR	It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
	And are by me with child,' &c. This is done:
	Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
	These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
	That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
	thought he would.
	And, from the extremest upward of thy head
GLOUCESTER	No? What needed, then, that terrible dispatch of
	So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
	Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
	jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
	As I have set it down.
Chorus	Two households, both alike in dignity,
EDGAR	By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
	Sir, this I hear; the king is come to his daughter,
	But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
	As you are now, for you are cold and stem;
ACT II
	distress in my similes of comfort and leave him to
	And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
	of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves
	[Alarums. They fight. EDMUND falls]
	By your eyes' anguish.
	Should have a back or second, that might hold,
ALBANY	Shut your mouth, dame,
	Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
	Will yield to see his daughter.
JULIET	And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
	She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
	[Exit]
	A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
LAERTES	A touch, a touch, I do confess.
	Sir, in this audience,
PETER	No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
	Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Ay, amen!
	To give away thy land,
KING LEAR	I'll see that straight.
OSRIC	I know you are not ignorant--
	'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
	Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
	Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
	Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
SCENE II	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	[Exit, above]
GUILDENSTERN	In what, my dear lord?
	I'll visit you.
	All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
CURAN	Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
	With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
ROSENCRANTZ	Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
	Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
	There's yet one good in ten.
	Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
Fool	Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
	And with a larger tether may he walk
	And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
	Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
	That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
HELENA	My lord your son made me to think of this;
	I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
	I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
	And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
	And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
KENT	None.
JULIET	Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
	Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
	Your graces are right welcome.
	At our great bidding?
ROMEO	I dream'd a dream to-night.
	That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
	He's loved of the distracted multitude,
	Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
	Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
	His master thus.
	The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
	That she which marries you must marry me,
	Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
	But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
	Necessitied to help, that by this token
	me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
	With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
KENT	That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
	Than for to think that I would sink it here.
	And when we have our naked frailties hid,
	In the cauldron boil and bake;
	entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
SCENE III	Gloucester's castle.
	poll; half of the which dare not shake snow from off
	man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
First Murderer	He's a traitor.
	kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
	When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom;
	The tyranny of the open night's too rough
	Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
	The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
	A sable silver'd.
	And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
	That nature, which contemns its origin,
	[Exeunt]
	Should many people, under two commands,
	Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
SCENE III	The Florentine camp.
	thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
KING CLAUDIUS	I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
ROSENCRANTZ	|  courtiers.
	O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
COUNTESS	In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
	Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
	Give me my armour.
	Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
PARIS	Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
ACT I
	done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
	gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
Knight	Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would
GLOUCESTER	[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
	pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can
Gentleman	One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
	Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;
	That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
	With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
	Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
	the instruments,
	So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
EDMUND	No, by mine honour, madam.
PAROLLES	Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
	Sought to be king o'er her.
	That takes the reason prisoner?
		Knock,
	An thou hadst not come to my bed.
MACBETH	Whence is that knocking?
	Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
	That clogs me with this answer.'
HAMLET	Up from my cabin,
HORATIO	What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
	Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
	And put it in his pocket!
	Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
ACT IV
	The rather, if you could devise it so
	ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
	Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
	Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,
PAROLLES	I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
	There would have been a time for such a word.
	Who here hath lain these two days buried.
	[Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others]
CORNWALL	Why art thou angry?
	And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
	[Exit]
	they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
	Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
	Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
	Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
	To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
	[Enter EDGAR, at the third sound, armed, with a
CAPULET	Make haste, make haste.
	That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Third Servant	If she live long,
	And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
	What safe and nicely I might well delay
	Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
	Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth;
	powers of the kingdom approach apace.
MERCUTIO	Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
	Live elves and fairies in a ring,
	But I must also feel it as a man:
	His flight was madness: when our actions do not,
Second Lord	Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
	Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
	myself. There's mine; beg another of thy daughters.
MACBETH	O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
KING LEAR	I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
	head-piece.
Sergeant	Yes;
	And would not put my reputation now
KING CLAUDIUS	We will try it.
Nurse	Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
	What need you five and twenty, ten, or five,
	I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
	For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
	I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
	And in conclusion to oppose the bolt
Clown	Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
Messenger	Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
	Their going hence, even as their coming hither;
	Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
	I am a very foolish fond old man,
TYBALT	This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
KENT	All the power of his wits have given way to his
	On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
	The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
	I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
	pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
First Murderer	Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
	And will this brother's wager frankly play.
	Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe:
	His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
HAMLET	So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
	Shall harm Macbeth.
	Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou
	Thou comest in such a questionable shape
	Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
BALTHASAR	As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
	when you find him out, you have him ever after.
	Be not familiar with her.
BENVOLIO	She will indite him to some supper.
	Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
	To show us so much gentry and good will
	do you no harm to learn.
	And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
	Thy hope ends here!
	Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
	come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
	In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
	As two spent swimmers, that do cling together
	odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
	Give thee quick conduct.
MARCELLUS	|
	father will hence to-night.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
	There is a remedy, approved, set down,
	I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
	Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
EDMUND	                  Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true;
	Each way and move. I take my leave of you:
Clown	I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have
ALBANY	Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
DUNCAN	True, worthy Banquo; he is full so valiant,
	I bought an unction of a mountebank,
DIANA	No:
ACT V
	That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
	That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
	That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
	Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
	that: heaven knows what she has known.
ABRAHAM	Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
	We'll put the matter to the present push.
	In me to lose.
	[Exit]
	and debile minister, great power, great
LADY MACDUFF	Now, God help thee, poor monkey!
ALBANY	The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.
	My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
	Escaped the hunt. No port is free; no place,
	I will go seek the king.
	Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
	Here, friend, 's another purse; in it a jewel
	About the world have times twelve thirties been,
	That palter with us in a double sense;
	Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
	But with the aid of use.
	In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
	(Second Watchman:)
	out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
	Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
	All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
	I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
	The strength o' the enemy.
	And last the hearty welcome.
Clown	By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
KING LEAR	You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
	Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
	In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.
ALBANY	He is not here.
REGAN	My sickness grows upon me.
SCENE VI	A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
	wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
	GONERIL, REGAN, CORDELIA, and Attendants]
	No traveller returns, puzzles the will
EDMUND	If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear
HAMLET	[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
	Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
	With something rich about me: from that place
	And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
	LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant]
	For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
	My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
Nurse	What?
	MACBETH
	[Guards seize BERTRAM]
	Both to my God and to my gracious king:
	Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
	the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
	Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
	And I'll appear again.
	But Romeo may not: more validity,
HAMLET	Ecstasy!
ROMEO	In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Second Gentleman	Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence:
	[Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR]
	(Third Musician:)
LAFEU	Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
	You cannot call it love; for at your age
	Such as I love; and you, among the store,
	For this night's watching.
	Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
	Come, some music!
OSWALD	Help, ho! murder! help!
	That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
	So early walking did I see your son:
REGAN	How now, you dog!
	Here's his lordship now.
	Against the grace and person of my master,
	Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
HORATIO	[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
COUNTESS	Nor I your mother?
HAMLET	Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
	Still to return your own.
	Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
	Is it not monstrous that this player here,
	'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
	And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
OSWALD	Madam, with much ado:
KING	He hath arm'd our answer,
LORD POLONIUS	Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
MERCUTIO	Why, may one ask?
	Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
KING LEAR	The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
REYNALDO	At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
ACT II
	For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
	To make it truster of your own report
	To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
	An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
LORD POLONIUS	Do you know me, my lord?
	Against the use of nature? Present fears
	This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen,
	No note upon my parents, his all noble:
	[Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colours,
	with a tree in his hand]
KING	The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears;
Third Apparition	Be lion-mettled, proud; and take no care
	Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
	[Knocking within]
	I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
REYNALDO	As gaming, my lord.
	But never hope to know why I should marry her.
	Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
	Too nice, and yet too true!
	To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
	And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
	down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
	To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
ALL	Seek to know no more.
	That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
KING LEAR	What art thou?
	That I require a clearness: and with him--
	My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
JULIET	Sweet, so would I:
	His liberty is full of threats to all;
	Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
	'twould not ha' bin zo long as 'tis by a vortnight.
	My soul is full of discord and dismay.
	Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
	And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
SCENE II	A field between the two camps.
First Lord	He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
	He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
	That tend upon my father?
	To say I have done no harm?
	To the last syllable of recorded time,
	To lead him where he would: his roguish madness
	Excitements of my reason and my blood,
KING	Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
	Is too much for a score,
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch]
	What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
BERTRAM	No more o' that;
	Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
	Wreck'd as homeward he did come.
MACBETH	[Within]  Who's there? what, ho!
	Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
	They are but beggars that can count their worth;
	MACBETH
	So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
	knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
	Coming from us.
SAMPSON	Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
	HAMLET
	Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
	Of the last monarchy,--see that you come
	To youth and liberty.
	your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
	Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
	Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
	As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,
	Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
	Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
REGAN	This house is little: the old man and his people
TYBALT	nephew to Lady Capulet.
	grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you
GLOUCESTER	Pursue him, ho! Go after.
	I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
	And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
PAROLLES	You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them
	A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
	Return you to my sister.
	Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
	The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
EDGAR	Know, my name is lost;
	and credit and as I hope to live.
	Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
	[Exit]
First Witch	Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
SCENE III	A room in Polonius' house.
	That we present us to him.
	And ever three parts coward, I do not know
	wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
	Which she hath praised him with above compare
	[Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following]
	Was both herself and love: O, then, give pity
ROSENCRANTZ	Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
GUILDENSTERN	There are the players.
	A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
ALBANY	Well, you may fear too far.
	Implored your highness' pardon and set forth
COUNTESS	You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
	brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
	our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish
	We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
Fool	Why, to put his head in; not to give it away to his
BENVOLIO	Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
	true descent;
	Stick fiery off indeed.
	And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
	[Exit Ghost]
	As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
	And bear it to the chapel.
	Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
MARCELLUS	Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
	I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
GONERIL	At your choice, sir.
Second Lord	Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
	Did not attend him as we rode? I think
ABRAHAM	servant to Montague.
	These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
	Nor would we deign him burial of his men
	So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
	Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
LORD POLONIUS	Marry, well bethought:
	Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
	That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
	To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
	And all those twenty could but kill one life.
	wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
	thou art nothing.
MACBETH	To-morrow, as he purposes.
	Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
	And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
	And by and by my master drew on him;
LADY MACBETH	Come on;
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
	So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
HAMLET	[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
REYNALDO	Ay, very well, my lord.
ACT I
	And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
Clown	O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
	And you must put me in your heart for friend,
ACT II
	For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
	CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains, &c]
HORATIO	[Reads]  'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
LAFEU	Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
LADY CAPULET	Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
	comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
	I am from humble, he from honour'd name;
KING LEAR	I will die bravely, like a bridegroom. What!
	Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
HAMLET	Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
	Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
	With sore distraction. What I have done,
	Prithee, allow the wind.
EDGAR	Armed, brother!
ROMEO	For your broken shin.
	bluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I am
	The bounty and the benison of heaven
	That the proportion both of thanks and payment
	Yea, from the table of my memory
ACT II
SAMPSON	Fear me not.
	Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
	that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
GLOUCESTER	But have I fall'n, or no?
	I can be patient; I can stay with Regan,
LENNOX	May't please your highness sit.
Second Soldier	                  So I will, sir.
REGAN	Fare thee well.
HAMLET	With drink, sir?
	Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
KING LEAR	O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your
	He whom my father named? your Edgar?
	Three Witches.
	Larded with sweet flowers
SCENE II	Fife. Macduff's castle.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	The effect of what I wrote?
	Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
REGAN	Why is this reason'd?
	A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man:
	brother,	EDGAR.'
KING CLAUDIUS	[Aside]  It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
	O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
	Being a thing immortal as itself?
	As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
	given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
LAFEU	I am sure I saw her wear it.
	By wondering how thou took'st it.
	It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
	runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with
	The source of this our watch and the chief head
	And that shall lend a kind of easiness
	[Re-enter JULIET, above]
KING CLAUDIUS	How long hath she been thus?
Captain	Yes, it is already garrison'd.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	[Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR]
	And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
EDGAR	You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
	I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--
	If it find heaven, must find it out to-night.
	tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
COUNTESS	                  Find you that there?
	Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
	I'll fa you; do you note me?
	So shall you share all that he doth possess,
HAMLET	It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
EDMUND	When I dissuaded him from his intent,
	succession for it perpetually.
	Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
KING LEAR	Ha!
	Shall be the label to another deed,
LORD POLONIUS	The actors are come hither, my lord.
	An Apothecary. (Apothecary:)
KENT	I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered
ROMEO	Whither?
	That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
	That you are so.
	KING LEAR
	I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
	Are as the time is: to be tender-minded
	To go to Paris?
	Where is your son?
SCENE II	Capulet's orchard.
	Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down;
	[A noise within]
HAMLET	My fate cries out,
	Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
	it provokes the desire, but it takes
	Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
	[Exeunt]
KENT	Nor tripped neither, you base football player.
	they say barnes are blessings.
	Henceforward do your messages yourself.
First Murderer	'Tis Banquo's then.
		                  DIANA CAPILET.
JULIET	Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
KING	Come hither, count; do you know these women?
KING CLAUDIUS	I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
HAMLET	Very well, my lord
	We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
	way.
REYNALDO	My lord, that would dishonour him.
	What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
LADY MACBETH	Know you not he has?
KING LEAR	Did I not, fellow?
	And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;
COUNTESS	Haste you again.
	To see another thus. I know not what to say.
	Among nine bad if one be good,
MALCOLM	Dispute it like a man.
	But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
	Lend less than thou owest,
	pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he
	Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
Second Lord	No better, if you please.
	To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
	I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
	This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
ALBANY	Gloucester's eye!
	Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
	to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
	For pilferings and most common trespasses
	Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
	I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
	of; which imports to the kingdom so much
KING CLAUDIUS	She swounds to see them bleed.
	[Enter HORATIO]
Second Lord	Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal
HAMLET	A dream itself is but a shadow.
	Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
BERTRAM	I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
HAMLET	The body is with the king, but the king is not with
LADY CAPULET	Why, how now, Juliet!
LENNOX	                  Good night; and better health
	Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
	This weaves itself perforce into my business.
	cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
	So beggars marry many.
	Only she comes too short: that I profess
	The knowledge of themselves.
	Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
	If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
HAMLET	That is Laertes,
	Go on; I'll follow thee.
COUNTESS	An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this,
	when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
	[Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM]
	[Exit]
	daring the reports of my tongue.
DUNCAN	Give me your hand;
	his displeasure; which at this instant so rageth
	His word was still,--Fie, foh, and fum,
	Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
	soon moody to be moved.
	That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
	The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
	would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
KENT	His countenance likes me not.
ACT III
First Soldier	No, sir, I warrant you.
	thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which
	Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
BANQUO	O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
	Say 'Thus did Banquo.'
REGAN	In my rights,
	More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
HORATIO	They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
ROMEO	Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
MACBETH	But wherefore could not I pronounce 'Amen'?
	You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
GLOUCESTER	He calls to horse; but will I know not whither.
KING CLAUDIUS	Not that I know.
	He swung about his head and cut the winds,
HAMLET	Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
	Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
	LENNOX, and Soldiers]
	Upon your grace's part; black and fearful
	My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	To him from whom you brought them.
First Lord	You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
HAMLET	Saw? who?
	He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
	For I am almost ready to dissolve,
BERTRAM	O my Parolles, they have married me!
	I'll never do you wrong for your own sake:
LAERTES	Farewell.
	O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
OPHELIA	At home, my lord.
	And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
	cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
REGAN	My sister may receive it much more worse,
	The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
	my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
	dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is
CAPULET	Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
	But give thyself unto my sick desires,
	Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
	To what I ask you.
		    O, are you free?
EDGAR	Worthy prince, I know't.
	In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
Third Witch	All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
	Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
	In three our kingdom: and 'tis our fast intent
OSRIC	Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
	The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear;
LENNOX	What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
	But, better look'd into, he truly found
HORATIO	A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
	To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
	I prithee, put them off.
	Hail, King of Scotland!
	And writ as little beard.
	time, have you heard her say?
	And show what we alone must think, which never
	And makes each petty artery in this body
Son	If he were dead, you'ld weep for
	Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
	[They set upon BANQUO]
	Without the form of justice, yet our power
LADY MACDUFF	Every one.
	rarity redeems him.
KING LEAR	How, how, Cordelia! mend your speech a little,
	I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave;
	Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
	(Second Gentleman:)
MALCOLM	                  This is the sergeant
	Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
	Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
	Within this hour my man shall be with thee
	Stop, stop! No help?
ACT IV
MERCUTIO	Help me into some house, Benvolio,
	far, would have made nature immortal, and death
KING	Here is my hand; the premises observed,
MARCELLUS	Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
	much further;
	And that which rather thou dost fear to do
	charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I
MACBETH	We will proceed no further in this business:
CAPULET	And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
	pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Messenger	Come with my lady hither.
	For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind;
	In pious rage the two delinquents tear,
	And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
	And write to her a love-line.
EDMUND	Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
	anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
	[Sings]
	Witness the world, that I create thee here
	My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
	Like monsters of the deep.
	write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
HELENA	To Saint Jaques le Grand.
	By Gis and by Saint Charity,
SCENE II	Paris. The KING's palace.
ROMEO	I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
Gentleman	Something he left imperfect in the
MALCOLM	Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
HELENA	But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
KENT	Importune him once more to go, my lord;
ROSENCRANTZ:	|
Second Servant	We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys; be
	And could of men distinguish, her election
	Mark the high noises; and thyself bewray,
	[Noise again]
	For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
	When priests are more in word than matter;
	Extended or contracted all proportions
	Please it this matron and this gentle maid
OPHELIA	What means your lordship?
	lose thee nothing; do it carefully. And the
	Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
HELENA	My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
LAERTES	Why ask you this?
	withers are unwrung.
LENNOX	                  Or so much as it needs,
	Where is my lord of Gloucester?
	Upon the gad! Edmund, how now! what news?
Gentleman	I shall, my liege.
	town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
	That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
	And set me up in hope? But hush! no more.
	laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
	go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect
	[Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO]
	Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
ALBANY	Thou art arm'd, Gloucester: let the trumpet sound:
ACT II
	Truly, however else.
	Now marry in an instant.
	To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
	One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
		    Read on this book;
MACBETH	One cried 'God bless us!' and 'Amen' the other;
	there rust, and let me die.
	And yet I know him a notorious liar,
MACBETH	Ourself will mingle with society,
	For what advancement may I hope from thee
	Hear me one word.
	So be my grave my peace, as here I give
	When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
GONERIL	Not so hot:
	heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
Clown	In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no
PETER	O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
	tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
	That, being of so young days brought up with him,
MERCUTIO	Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
	house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
	I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
	Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
	In seeking to augment it, but still keep
	That he which hath your noble father slain
	And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
	On such regards of safety and allowance
	As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
	Shall, with my cousin, your right-noble son,
JULIET	Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
MENTEITH	What does the tyrant?
HELENA	Ay, madam.
	To outface me with leaping in her grave?
	This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
	Do faithful homage and receive free honours:
HORATIO	He waxes desperate with imagination.
CORNWALL	Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
	[Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX]
REGAN	I speak in understanding; you are; I know't:
ACT V
	I would adventure for such merchandise.
	My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
	As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
	[They play]
	|  servants to Capulet.
	Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
	To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets:
	[Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and PARIS]
	For the supply and profit of our hope,
	Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
YOUNG SIWARD	What is thy name?
REGAN	Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
	Than your particular demands will touch it:
GLOUCESTER	I serve you, madam:
	you.
	KING LEAR
ROMEO	Here's goodly gear!
	We do it wrong, being so majestical,
	Did nothing.
	And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
	You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
HAMLET	What, frighted with false fire!
ACT III
	Or memorise another Golgotha,
HAMLET	Do the boys carry it away?
KING CLAUDIUS	O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
	Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
	To have her gentleman abused, assaulted,
KENT	What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
MACDUFF	O, relation
	The castle of Macduff I will surprise;
	That rises like the issue of a king,
	[Exeunt]
	I do beseech your grace,--
MACBETH	Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it.
ROMEO	Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
	In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
	And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
HELENA	And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
	[Reads]
	But, peace! for from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
	hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
	And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
Nurse	Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
	With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
	Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
	Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
EDGAR	   Look, where he stands and glares!
	great a prince as you are.
	I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
	company to-night?
	do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
	To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
	Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
	will fit any question.
	Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
PAROLLES	She is.
LENNOX	For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
Second Lord	Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?
	Give the word.
	[Enter a Messenger]
	Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
	Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
	I would prefer him to a better place.
	Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
	the top of my compass: and there is much music,
	If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
Nurse	Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
	[Exit GLOUCESTER]
	your lordship.
EDGAR	I thank you, sir: that's all.
SCENE II	The country near Dunsinane.
	As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
	owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
	They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
	That I yet know not?
	[Exeunt]
	He had the wit which I can well observe
BENVOLIO	Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
	There shall he sit till noon.
	To 't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
	judgment, your highness is not entertained with that
	And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
	This comfort with the like! But I have words
	Before we reckon with your several loves,
	Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,
LORD POLONIUS	At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
KENT	Yes, sir; but anger hath a privilege.
First Lord	Nothing, but let him have thanks. Demand of him my
	Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
BANQUO	Ay, my good lord.
	We do require them of you, so to use them
	Yet am I noble as the adversary
	Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
	Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
	[Exit PETER]
MACBETH	I conjure you, by that which you profess,
	My wife kill'd too?
LAFEU	Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
Widow	I should believe you:
	[Drinks]
	She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
	That to our sister you do make return;
	Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
	This is the very ecstasy of love,
	What know believe, and what I can redress,
	Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
	What's there?
	Of the unworthiest siege.
	they come will tell you more: for my part, I only
	demonstration of grief?
SCENE I	Florence. The DUKE's palace.
MARCELLUS	|
	That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
	express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
QUEEN GERTRUDE	I'll warrant you,
BERTRAM	I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power
GLOUCESTER	O, let me kiss that hand!
	must produce for an interpreter.
	controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
LADY MACBETH	Fie, for shame!
	Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
	Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
	draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
	faith, for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
	Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
	For instant remedy: be then desired
	Yet have I ventured to come seek you out,
HAMLET	Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
ROMEO	Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
	Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
	Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
		        O, sir, are you come?
	church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
	He was much famed.
	I will drain him dry as hay:
	Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
	HAMLET
	Without our special wonder? You make me strange
PRINCE	Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
MACDUFF	I am not treacherous.
	cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
	virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE]
	This is a dreadful sentence.
KING CLAUDIUS	But where is he?
	And usest none in that true use indeed
LAFEU	To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
	Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
	Fortune, that arrant whore,
	In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
	If you dare venture in your own behalf,
PARIS	I do defy thy conjurations,
	All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
	Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
	For so he said he would: I hear him near.
	For wise men are grown foppish,
	But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
	Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
	That while Verona by that name is known,
First Gentleman	Indeed, good lady,
	Thou shalt not die: die for adultery! No:
KING	Make choice; and, see,
	That can my speech defuse, my good intent
	Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
Lord	My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
	Set your entreatments at a higher rate
	It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
PAROLLES	As you'll have her.
	[Flourish. Exeunt]
KING LEAR	Good morrow to you both.
	To what I shall unfold.
PAROLLES	Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
	Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
	Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
PAROLLES	I'll about it this evening: and I will presently
	Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
	Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
Player Queen	   The instances that second marriage move
	Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
	and colours]
	That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
	Upon her great disaster.
	And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
	Young fry of treachery!
	Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
	That has no relish of salvation in't;
	charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
	Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
	That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
	nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
	Noble philosopher, your company.
	brought it?
HELENA	How do you mean?
HELENA	Then, I confess,
SCENE IV	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	For sweet discourses in our time to come.
HAMLET	Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
KENT	Ay.
	Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
	whether you were sent for, or no?
	Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
	I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
	Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
	Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
HORATIO	Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
EDGAR	I thank you, sir.
	By indirections find directions out:
	What she has done for me?
	Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
	Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
BERTRAM	I take her hand.
	Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
	I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
	[Enter Widow and DIANA]
FRIAR LAURENCE	Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
	A very serious business calls on him.
BERTRAM	                  Some six months since, my lord.
	My will to her consent is but a part;
	We, poising us in her defective scale,
	In youth, when I did love, did love,
LADY MACBETH	Did you send to him, sir?
	Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
	I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
	More than in your addition.
	The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
	It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
	[Exeunt CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, PARIS, and FRIAR LAURENCE]
	'Sblood, there is something in this more than
	Which you will wonder at.
GLOUCESTER	Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
	le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere
KENT	Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
	|  servants to the Countess of Rousillon.
KING	Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
	That memory, the warder of the brain,
	Of dear import, and the neglecting it
	mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
	Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
	You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
	Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot,
	I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
	My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	What majesty should be, what duty is,
Nurse	God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
	KING LEAR
	Take her, or leave her?
	We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
ACT I
	Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
LAFEU	I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
	friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
	Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
	sharp sauce.
	[Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France,
Second Lord	Hardly serve.
Gentleman	Contending with the fretful element:
	Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
	OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING
	To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
	We'll ne'er come there again.'
	Then, venom, to thy work.
	I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
	historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
	And he will make the face of heaven so fine
ROSENCRANTZ	Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
Doctor	What is it she does now? Look, how she rubs her hands.
	This presence knows,
	Mastiff, grey-hound, mongrel grim,
	be what they are, there were no fear in marriage;
	dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
	[Retires and kneels]
MACBETH	I wish your horses swift and sure of foot;
	The danger to itself?
	And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
	'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
	The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
	Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
ACT IV
	[Enter ROSENCRANTZ]
Second Clown	Why, 'tis found so.
COUNTESS	In what case?
	[Exit]
	[Exeunt]
	Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
	To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort,
	As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
	This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
	[A cry of women within]
	Desire his jewels and this other's house:
	But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
	Did ever in so true a flame of liking
	Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
	I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
	But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
	O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
ROMEO	Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
	How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
GREGORY	They must take it in sense that feel it.
	was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
	With most admired disorder.
	A plot upon her virtuous husband's life;
	[Enter MONTAGUE and others]
	Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
HAMLET	Of him, sir.
	Go you, call hither my fool.
GUILDENSTERN	O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
	Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
	This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
	Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
	As we shall make our griefs and clamour roar
	O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
Gentleman	Not to a rage: patience and sorrow strove
	Come, go, good Juliet,
	Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
	His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
BENVOLIO	By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
	[Giving a paper]
	Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd;
	Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
GREGORY	No, for then we should be colliers.
MACDUFF	How does my wife?
Nurse	Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
MACDUFF	Look to the lady.
	Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
	Where you shall hold your session. At this time
	Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
MARCELLUS	|
PAROLLES	Why think you so?
	I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
	this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
	Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
	I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
	By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
	Beneath is all the fiends';
LORD POLONIUS	The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
EDGAR	Let us deal justly.
	My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
	keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with
		       What is your tidings?
	I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
	[Enter a Captain]
	known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
	Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
	|
	[Exeunt]
Clown	Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's
	Than such a murder is.
	That youth and observation copied there;
First Clown	Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
ROMEO	Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
	When he the ambitious Norway combated;
	Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
HORATIO	These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	No, nothing but ourselves.
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Fool	Then 'tis like the breath of an unfee'd lawyer; you
	I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
HAMLET	That's two of his weapons: but, well.
First Soldier	Boskos thromuldo boskos.
	Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
	He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
	And meeting here the other messenger,
	Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
	Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
LADY MACBETH	Give him tending;
ROSS	I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
	ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his
	service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
COUNTESS	Well, now.
LAFEU	Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you
KING LEAR	If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
	Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
	My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
ACT III
	Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
	To fall and blast her pride!
	Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
	Receive in either by this dear encounter.
ROSENCRANTZ	Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
	The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
	Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
	[Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him]
	Most thoroughly for my father.
	That they take place, when virtue's steely bones
GUILDENSTERN	Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
ROMEO	Good heart, at what?
	Search every acre in the high-grown field,
	[EDGAR interposes]
	The unguarded Duncan? what not put upon
GONERIL	My most dear Gloucester!
	I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
	And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
COUNTESS	Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
HAMLET	O, but she'll keep her word.
	That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
	Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
BERTRAM	What of him?
HELENA	Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport.
	Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
	[Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS]
HELENA	The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
	[Exit]
EDGAR	From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
	For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
FRIAR LAURENCE	This same should be the voice of Friar John.
PARIS	Come you to make confession to this father?
COUNTESS	Do you love my son?
HELENA	a gentlewoman protected by the Countess.
	exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they
ROMEO	Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS]
	With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
	I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
	[Enter a Messenger]
	o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
	the middle on's face?
	too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
	[Exit Murderer]
	That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
	Who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst.
	[Exeunt]
	Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
	Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
	a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
	And the very ports they blow,
LAFEU	Your lord and master did well to make his
MACDUFF	Despair thy charm;
	When my dimensions are as well compact,
	Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
	To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
	How is't, my lord? how look you?
	Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
GREGORY	I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
	He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
	That are so fortified against our story
	traitors too; in her they are the better for their
Apothecary	Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
	Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
SCENE I	Court of Macbeth's castle.
	Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
	When now I think you can behold such sights,
	Did hate thee or thy father!
	[Dies]
GLOUCESTER	But where is he?
	yesty collection, which carries them through and
	A Page. (Page:)
LADY MACDUFF	Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
MERCUTIO	Nay, I'll conjure too.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
	Their papers, is more lawful.
PAROLLES	O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
	He gave it to a commoner o' the camp,
CORDELIA	Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
		      What are these faces?
	Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
	To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
	The lass I spoke of.
	If I did stay to look on his intents.
	When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
KING LEAR	An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.
	That this remotion of the duke and her
	Though castles topple on their warders' heads;
Player Queen	Sleep rock thy brain,
	and use him as he uses thee; so, farewell.
Son	As birds do, mother.
CORNWALL	Peace, sirrah!
	The light and careless livery that it wears
SCENE VI	Camp before Florence.
Fool	This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
HAMLET	Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
	Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
BERTRAM	Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
	Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
	Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
	's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
	Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
	In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
	Perform what you command us.
	Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed
Widow	You came, I think, from France?
	More is thy due than more than all can pay.
BANQUO	The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
KENT	I' the mire.
	And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
	For sundry weighty reasons.
	lordship anon.
	But let his disposition have that scope
MERCUTIO	A challenge, on my life.
	Should have him thus restrain'd.
	Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
	The head and source of all your son's distemper.
ACT IV
	Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
HAMLET	I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
	And with him pour we in our country's purge
	Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
	And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
	Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
HAMLET	How if I answer 'no'?
	an honest man should have, he has nothing.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	But not by him.
	Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
	up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
MACBETH	Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
	be born under Mars.
	If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
	[Exeunt]
BANQUO	Thanks, sir: the like to you!
	We will require her welcome.
	Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
	My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
MALCOLM	Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
	I'll lead you to some biding.
ALBANY	Stay till I have read the letter.
	And such an instrument I was to use.
	But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
	It could not move thus.
	Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
	Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
	The letter was not nice but full of charge
HAMLET	Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
	Where you have never come, or sent it us
	Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
	And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
	go to bed.
	[Exit Attendant]
	Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
	I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
	The table round.
	To use his eyes for garden water-pots,
	Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
	The night is long that never finds the day.
	No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
	Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
	Must be provided for: and you shall put
MACBETH	Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
BERTRAM	My gracious sovereign,
	Our great self and our credit, to esteem
BERTRAM	I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
	[Enter Prologue]
	displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his
HELENA	I do beseech you, sir,
	To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
	When you are dead, you should be such a one
	To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
	Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
	I am as I have spoken.
	Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it:
OPHELIA	So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
LAERTES	You mock me, sir.
OPHELIA	Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
BENVOLIO	This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
	Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
	Though well we may not pass upon his life
	But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
	Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
First Lord	We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
	Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
HORATIO	My lord, I did;
	Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
	[Exit]
	me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
GLOUCESTER	What, hath your grace no better company?
LORD POLONIUS	Well be with you, gentlemen!
	if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
CORNWALL	Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
	Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
	[Re-enter JULIET, above]
	The fellow has a deal of that too much,
HORATIO	In what particular thought to work I know not;
	derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not
	Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
	But never doubt I love.
	is more hotter in France than there.
	[Grappling with him]
	In what I further shall intend to do,
LENNOX	Mean you his majesty?
	Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
	[Exeunt]
PETER	I will then give it you soundly.
	Here's to thy health.
	[Enter Ghost]
	[Drum afar off]
	[Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others]
ALBANY	                  I'll overtake you. Speak.
FRIAR JOHN	Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
	cunning of it; I found it thrown in at the
	And not send back my messenger.
	force of honesty can translate beauty into his
	O God, she comes!
	it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
	That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
	Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
	At one fell swoop?
MALCOLM	What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
	the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
	[Enter Nurse]
	For this time, all the rest depart away:
First Lord	They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
	Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
BALTHASAR	servant to Romeo.
	Stands not within the prospect of belief,
	In differences so mighty. If she be
	The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
	Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
		   O Banquo, Banquo,
	But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
	It is most retrograde to our desire:
	He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!
	For never was a story of more woe
LAFEU	Uncertain life, and sure death.
KING LEAR	Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.
HAMLET	I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
GLOUCESTER	Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
	Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
HAMLET	     Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
	On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
	linguist and the armipotent soldier.
	That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
	That the first face of neither, on the start,
	Doth make against me of this direful murder;
	Since you are like to see the king before me,
	This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
	Myself an enemy to all other joys,
	By letters congruing to that effect,
	Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
	Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
	Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;
Knight	My lord, I know not what the matter is; but, to my
	Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten
GONERIL	O vain fool!
KING CLAUDIUS	O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
	Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
	Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
	He'll shape his old course in a country new.
	Keep me in temper: I would not be mad!
JULIET	Where is my mother! why, she is within;
	For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
Son	What is a traitor?
	elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
KENT	See better, Lear; and let me still remain
	his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
	(First Musician:)
	Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
	Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
	The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
	Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
	I told him of the army that was landed;
	The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
	Fleance is 'scaped.
	Of mighty opposites.
	But when I came, some minute ere the time
JULIET	And joy comes well in such a needy time:
	like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
	something: where did I leave?
	Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
	A sleeping potion; which so took effect
	To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
	The one the other poison'd for my sake,
BERNARDO	Who's there?
MERCUTIO	He is wise;
	An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
CORNWALL	Shut up your doors, my lord; 'tis a wild night:
HAMLET	Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
	Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
	If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
	Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
	you are o' the commission,
	[Exit First Servant]
	no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
	from my brother, that I have not all o'er-read;
	Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
	I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
	If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
	[Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO]
HELENA	                  Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
First Servant	Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
	not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him
HAMLET	Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
	MACBETH
	Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
	Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	mouths in a glass.
HAMLET	What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
	And let mischance be slave to patience.
	Strengthen'd with what apology you think
	Is stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd.
	Speak to me:
	themselves may; but the many will be too chill and
	[Knocking within. Enter a Porter]
	Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude;
ACT IV
	There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
	Inform on that.
	They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
	My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
	For a charm of powerful trouble,
	Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
	Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
	Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
	No reckoning made, but sent to my account
	Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue; so your face
	In which the majesty of buried Denmark
	And then in post he came from Mantua
	Even to the disposition that I owe,
	Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
	Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
	Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
	Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
LAERTES	Ay, my lord;
	Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
	Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
	He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
	What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
	But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
	For stony limits cannot hold love out,
Clown	O Lord, sir! There's a simple putting off. More,
	Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
	We would as willingly give cure as know.
Fool	A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.
	I'll not be there.
	I have this present evening from my sister
ACT III
	There 's nothing serious in mortality:
	An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
	O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
	This present object made probation.
HAMLET	I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
	I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
	that my lord your son was upon his return home, I
	[Descends]
COUNTESS	Is this all your worship's reason?
	I love your son.
	I will omit no opportunity
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
GLOUCESTER	His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
PAGE	This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
ROMEO	I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
ACT III
MERCUTIO	Any man that can write may answer a letter.
	I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
	Help, help! Call help.
	Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
	kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
	I tell you all her wealth.
KING CLAUDIUS	Who shall stay you?
	into amazement and admiration.
	And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
	Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
KENT	Good my liege,--
REGAN	I pray you, sir, take patience: I have hope.
CAPULET	Send for the county; go tell him of this:
	Would murder as it fell.
	Whereof the world takes note: come, come, disclose
	As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
	The help of mine own eyes.
	Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
	As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
	[Laying his hand on his sword]
PAROLLES	Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
	Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
	|  Arm'd, my lord.
	Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
ROSENCRANTZ	My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
	You have some cause, they have not.
	[Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house,
	And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
	Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
	That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
	I smell the blood of a British man.
PAROLLES	Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
	That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
	That dotage gives it.
	This heavy-headed revel east and west
	That look'd upon't. Here comes the good Macduff.
	be patient; there is no fettering of authority.
	Go, sirrah, trudge about
LORD POLONIUS	                  Marry, sir, here's my drift;
	Here in the lobby.
	O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
	Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
FRANCISCO	Bernardo has my place.
SCENE I	The British camp, near Dover.
LORD POLONIUS	He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
	To shake all cares and business from our age;
	That the life-weary taker may fall dead
	marks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,
	Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
	us friends; I will pursue the amity.
	[Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers]
	And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
	Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
	My master, my dear lord he is; and I
	The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
	mightst behold the great image of authority: a
	And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
Third Murderer	Almost a mile: but he does usually,
	And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
OPHELIA	'Tis brief, my lord.
	[Enter REGAN and OSWALD]
	of Kent in Germany.
	Try what repentance can: what can it not?
	He falls to such perusal of my face
BERNARDO	He.
	There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
	When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
	Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
	Thy letters have transported me beyond
	[She falls upon her bed, within the curtains]
KING LEAR	Let me alone.
LENNOX	Sent he to Macduff?
	Without debatement further, more or less,
	To the direction just.
	That worthied him, got praises of the king
	No less to have done so, let me enfold thee
LAERTES	Drown'd! O, where?
SCENE IV	The heath. Before a hovel.
	Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
	Must be digested, give a favour from you
Second Lord	I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
Gentleman	You shall have any thing.
	I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
	How now! are the horses ready?
	To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
	The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
	Albany than Cornwall.
	When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
	Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
	And ask'd thee mercy for't.
KENT	What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
	In the restoring his bereaved sense?
	And these great tears grace his remembrance more
	many nicer needs; the last was the greatest, but
JULIET	What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
	She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
		   Hark! more knocking.
	[Flourish]
	Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
	If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
	But to confront the visage of offence?
	Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
	Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
HAMLET	I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
GLOUCESTER	Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
BERTRAM	I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
Second Witch	Killing swine.
	I pray you, go with me.
	conceived against your son, there is no fitter
	As one near death to those that wish him live:
	fifty each: so that the muster-file, rotten and
	[Dies]
	Had it the ability of life to thank you:
	Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
	Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
	Like softest music to attending ears!
	Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
	Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
MARCELLUS	'Tis gone!
	And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
KING CLAUDIUS	Let him demand his fill.
	And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
	and baskets]
	How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
DUNCAN	Where's the thane of Cawdor?
	Dost thou not laugh?
BANQUO	You shall be king.
	Here's yet some liquor left.
Second Capulet	'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;
	[Re-enter Clown]
Steward	Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
	But, you must know, your father lost a father;
	You justicers, that these our nether crimes
	No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
	That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Fool	Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
Nurse	if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with
	But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
PAROLLES	Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
KING LEAR	How's that?
FRANCISCO	Not a mouse stirring.
	I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
	and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
	By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
	[Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES]
	[Drawing his sword]
	they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
HAMLET	Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
	But even for want of that for which I am richer,
	Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
	Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
	acutely. I will return perfect courtier; in the
SCENE I	Without the Florentine camp.
	Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
GREGORY	Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
	Stay but a little, I will come again.
	Will call discreet proceeding.
ALBANY	Most monstrous! oh!
	And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
	And live the purer with the other half.
	Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
JULIET	Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
	That we may call it early by and by.
KING CLAUDIUS	Go seek him there.
JULIET	But to be frank, and give it thee again.
	thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
	With speedy help doth lend redress.'
	As violently as hasty powder fired
	The natural fool of fortune. Use me well;
	Were poor and single business to contend
Musician	Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
KING CLAUDIUS	Pluck them asunder.
	What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
	I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
MACDUFF	I have no words:
	Our purpose may hold there.
	The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
LAERTES	son to Polonius.
LADY MACDUFF	Yes, he is dead; how wilt thou do for a father?
EDMUND	This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
BANQUO	Let your highness
	The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
	Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
	See'st thou this object, Kent?
	And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
	we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
Widow	It is reported that he has taken their greatest
	for there are liars and swearers enow to beat
LORD POLONIUS	[Aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is method
	[The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in]
	Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
	Do scald like moulten lead.
	Were very pregnant and potential spurs
	his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
	With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
MERCUTIO	The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
	Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
	Remember what I tell you.
	[Enter ALBANY]
	You less know how to value her desert
	are as mad as he.
	And we beseech you, bend you to remain
EDGAR	Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
	[Exit]
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
FRIAR JOHN	|
	learned by the perfectest report, they have more in
	and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
	The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
	Some say the lark makes sweet division;
	Take these again; for to the noble mind
	An old hare hoar,
HORATIO	It might, my lord.
	Murder of Gonzago?
	To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
REGAN	What, did my father's godson seek your life?
HORATIO	'Tis here!
	Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
	And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend:
	Away to heaven, respective lenity,
	thousand tenants.
	Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
OPHELIA	O, help him, you sweet heavens!
	I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.
	imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
	[Exit an Attendant]
	[Exit OSRIC]
	Hie you to church; I must another way,
	that he is?
	gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
EDGAR	[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
	This marvel to you.
ROSENCRANTZ	He does confess he feels himself distracted;
CURAN	Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad;
EDMUND	This speech of yours hath moved me,
	Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
	[Enter MACBETH]
REGAN	I know't, my sister's: this approves her letter,
	And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
	Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
	own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
	And so, without more circumstance at all,
HELENA	Nor would I wish you.
All	Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.
	The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
	As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
First Lord	'Tis our hope, sir,
	in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
	As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
	what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
ACT III
	In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,--
	Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
MARCELLUS	O, farewell, honest soldier:
	That can make vile things precious. Come,
	discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
	[Exeunt]
	start not so wildly from my affair.
	Is thine and my poor country's to command:
	And not have strew'd thy grave.
	ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
SIWARD	He's worth no more
FRIAR JOHN	I could not send it,--here it is again,--
	Yes, 'faith heartily.
	[Re-enter TYBALT]
	From the murderer's gibbet throw
GUILDENSTERN	Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
	quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
KING	I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you,
	[Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
	In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
	To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
	His means of death, his obscure funeral--
	[Enter ROSS]
	Upon a dwarfish thief.
LADY MACBETH	A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
LAFEU	A fistula, my lord.
	By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
SCENE I	A churchyard.
	As mad as the vex'd sea; singing aloud;
	Might in their working do you that offence,
	Revenges burn in them; for their dear causes
	For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name--
	Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
	Should be as moral as an old man's life?
LADY CAPULET	This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
	Against the undivulged pretence I fight
	The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
	written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
	A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest
	Each drop of us.
	Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
	I would, while it was smiling in my face,
	Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
	Duncan comes here to-night.
	for being old before thy time.
	So runs the world away.
Fool	She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
	Something wicked this way comes.
	Larded with many several sorts of reasons
	forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
	Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
ALBANY	Go after her: she's desperate; govern her.
	Will you be cured of your infirmity?
	How long is't now since last yourself and I
	At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
	lord: whom I serve above is my master.
	[Exit]
	Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
	Which the dark night hath so discovered.
	Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
	Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
	For I the ballad will repeat,
ACT IV
	For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
	Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
	At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,
KENT	Who hath he left behind him general?
HORATIO	What is't, my lord? we will.
Gentlewoman	She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
	doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
	mar.
	And dupp'd the chamber-door;
	sir!' I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
	[Exit an Attendant]
PAROLLES	Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
	A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
	narrow for your mind.
	Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
	That almost freezes up the heat of life:
	mighty business in hand.
	So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
MACBETH	Your children shall be kings.
	Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others]
	die; but that, my offences being many, I would
	With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
	where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
	O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
HAMLET	Why he more than another?
	With an importing visage; and she told me,
Fool	Not i' the stocks, fool.
CORNWALL	You know not why we came to visit you,--
	To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
	Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
	Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg: but thou dost breathe;
	Never, never, never, never, never!
	How does your honour for this many a day?
	Remembers not these garments; nor I know not
Fool	[Singing]
JULIET	I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
	[Exit]
	and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
	Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
	Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
	Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
	friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
	[Enter ROMEO]
	ceremonious affection as you were wont; there's a
Second Servant	When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
	To this unworthy husband of his wife;
	To you that know them not. This to my mother:
	[Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS]
	That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
KING	Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
	carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal; come your ways.
	Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
KING LEAR	Are you our daughter?
	[Exit an Attendant]
	So runs against all reason.
	The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
	Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
FRANCISCO	Give you good night.
	Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Widow	I have yielded:
	to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
	His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
	in's forehead.
	expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
KING CLAUDIUS	O Gertrude, come away!
	supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
JULIET	O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
SAMPSON	My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
	we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
	Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
	The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
	dares, being dared.
	One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
HAMLET	I embrace it freely;
	With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
LADY MACBETH	Who dares receive it other,
KING	Methought you said
	But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
JULIET	                  At what o'clock to-morrow
	For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
	That seems to speak things strange.
JULIET	O fortune, fortune! all men call thee fickle:
	Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
	Unto a dismal and a fatal end:
	I am mightily abused. I should e'en die with pity,
	And bind us further to you.
	Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
	hai!
	And his sandal shoon.
	[Enter the PRINCE and Attendants]
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, I have news to tell you.
	Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
	Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more.'
	I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
	That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
	To have the expense and waste of his revenues.
	How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
	In neither aught, or in extremity.
	I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
	close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
	The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
	That you express content; which we will pay,
	And hath shipped me intil the land,
	We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
LUCIANUS	nephew to the king.
	sir?
	For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
	As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
EDMUND	If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
	For who is living, if those two are gone?
	Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
	Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
	Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
OPHELIA	Do you doubt that?
	Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
ROMEO	How well my comfort is revived by this!
	standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to
	And call the noblest to the audience.
	I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
	Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.
	Thy sheep shall take no harm.
	for't. What players are they?
ALBANY	She is not well; convey her to my tent.
	Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
	Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!
	you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
	God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
	the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
HAMLET	Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
	To empirics, or to dissever so
	moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
	And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
COUNTESS	Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
	thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
SAMPSON	Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
	So show her merit, that did miss her love?
Gentleman	Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
Second Lord	Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
LAFEU	How understand we that?
	The deep damnation of his taking-off;
	I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
	to think!--
	And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
	As notes whose faculties inclusive were
	That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
LAFEU	What prince is that?
	and left nothing i' the middle: here comes one o'
ROSS	Farewell, father.
HELENA	Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
BANQUO	What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
	Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
	blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
PAROLLES	By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present
BERTRAM	I am commanded here, and kept a coil with
Clown	Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the
ACT IV
HAMLET	Hold off your hands.
MACDUFF	Is thy master stirring?
	A visor for a visor! what care I
	And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
	Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
ROMEO	How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
	he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he
	KING LEAR
	southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
MARIANA	He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
MACBETH	The table's full.
SCENE I	A room in POLONIUS' house.
	To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
BERTRAM	How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
	Than stands on any shoulder that I see
First Murderer	Most royal sir,
	In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Clown	So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does:
MERCUTIO	Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
	What if this mixture do not work at all?
	The power of man, for none of woman born
	Speak less than thou knowest,
BERNARDO	Last night of all,
JULIET	Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
LORD POLONIUS	[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
	That I protest I simply am a maid.
Lord	The son of Duncan,
	And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
	My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
	Against his liking: think you it is so?
	If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
	[Exeunt]
	'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
MACBETH	Fled to England!
	Which was declining on the milky head
	Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
	Let her who would be rid of him devise
	Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
	If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body;
ROMEO	What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
	Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
	[Exit]
	As thou didst leave it.
KING OF FRANCE	Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
	That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
	That done, laugh well at me.
	Guards, Watchmen, and Attendants.
BENVOLIO	                  Go, then; for 'tis in vain
	To amplify too much, would make much more,
	I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
Fool	I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
	Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
LADY CAPULET	                  A fortnight and odd days.
	Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
	that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
HAMLET	Do you see nothing there?
	[Gives the letter to EDMUND]
	When I behold--Seyton, I say!--This push
	and Attendants]
	Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
	The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
	Whether they live or die.
	[Enter KENT]
	Mark, I say, instantly; and carry it so
	And as a stranger to my heart and me
	To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
	Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
	I am for France.
	By desperate appliance are relieved,
	Thou talk'st of nothing.
LAFEU	Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
	him as this of Kent's banishment.
	Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
BENVOLIO	See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
	My Genius is rebuked; as, it is said,
TYBALT	Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
	Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
	the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
KING LEAR	Ay, so I think.
	Rather than so, come fate into the list.
	[Re-enter OSWALD]
	As therein are set down.
	Exception bid him speak, and at this time
PAROLLES	Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good
BENVOLIO	Why dost thou stay?
BERTRAM	Stay: the king.
	Three Musicians.
	Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
	[Alarums. Enter MACDUFF]
	Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
	Your patience so predominant in your nature
	sorrow that e'er I heard virgin exclaim in: which I
	Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Why, how now, Hamlet!
	I could not but by her. The other motive,
	draw, you whoreson cullionly barber-monger, draw.
ALBANY	How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:
	From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
LAERTES	A Norman was't?
First Soldier	But wilt thou faithfully?
	For men so old as we to keep the peace.
HELENA	                  O, I believe with him,
	And, to the last, bended their light on me.
OSWALD	Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
	more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
	O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
	but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
	Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
	Dismissing half your train, come then to me:
BERTRAM	Yes, my good lord;
MONTAGUE	O thou untaught! what manners is in this?
Third Witch	Hail!
LADY CAPULET	Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
MARCELLUS	What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
	What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
HAMLET	Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
	I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
	He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES]
	For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
	He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
	That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
	But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
	I pray thee, leave me to myself to-night,
	with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
	Now his important blood will nought deny
	Come, shall we go?
	what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
DUNCAN	No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive
	They bore him barefaced on the bier;
ALL	Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
	To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
	hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
	Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
	[Exeunt]
	our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
ROSENCRANTZ	[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
	inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where
	Received his love?
HORATIO	It is a nipping and an eager air.
HAMLET	How does the queen?
	For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
	can lick their fingers.
KING LEAR	The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and
	It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
Clown	Not much commendation to them.
	crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's
JULIET	How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
	For art and exercise in your defence
	As one that had been studied in his death
	English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
EDGAR	You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
	outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
	On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
	save your word.
	[Exit HORATIO]
	Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
ROMEO	I thought all for the best.
	That you do lie so late?
MACDUFF	Why, see you not?
	If there be any good thing to be done,
	penning of it.
	This is she--
ALL	Hail, King of Scotland!
	'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
	Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
	hath been seduced by them; and the misery is,
Second Clown	Go to.
CORDELIA	Ay, good my lord.
	All by the name of dogs: the valued file
	And do such bitter business as the day
KING LEAR	First let me talk with this philosopher.
SCENE III	A room in Capulet's house.
	All causes shall give way: I am in blood
	What we shall say we have and what we owe.
OPHELIA	He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
DIANA	Do you know he promised me marriage?
	eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
Second Witch	Not so happy, yet much happier.
	[Flourish. Re-enter GLOUCESTER, with KING OF FRANCE,
	And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
LADY MACBETH	Nought's had, all's spent,
KING LEAR	I would learn that; for, by the
	And dare, upon the warrant of my note,
	When you durst do it, then you were a man;
	Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
	Together with remembrance of ourselves.
	It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
	Shall never see his pardon; for my state
HAMLET	I would not hear your enemy say so,
	My head should be struck off.
	These dispositions, that of late transform you
	As meditation or the thoughts of love,
ROMEO	And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
	But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
	[Knocking within]
	entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
	Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
	But float upon a wild and violent sea
	Do you not see that I am out of breath?
	rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
EDGAR	[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at
LAFEU	          He cannot want the best
	casement of my closet.
	Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
	And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
	unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
HAMLET	I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
	Within the volume of which time I have seen
	Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
	Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
	I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
	With all the admired beauties of Verona:
	And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
ROMEO	Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
KING CLAUDIUS	'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
Doctor	Not so sick, my lord,
OPHELIA	What is, my lord?
	Should sure to the slaughter,
	And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
BENVOLIO	At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
	Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
	To show their open banner. Now to you:
	That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
LADY MACBETH	Sit, worthy friends: my lord is often thus,
	O, now I would they had changed voices too!
	That are but mutes or audience to this act,
	see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
EDGAR	What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
HAMLET	Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
	Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
	As if increase of appetite had grown
	Cousins, a word, I pray you.
	To his unmaster'd importunity.
		     By no means what?
	So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
	In the great hand of God I stand; and thence
	Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
	In going back to school in Wittenberg,
EDGAR	Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
	Of these delated articles allow.
	Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
BALTHASAR	Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
	Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
	When I should take possession of the bride,
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	Let four captains
	To desperation turn my trust and hope!
	And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
	Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
	Give me my father!
KING CLAUDIUS	So you shall;
	say an old man is twice a child.
CORNWALL	Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
	Having more man than wit about me, drew:
	A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
	The treasury of life, when life itself
Gentleman	Not, indeed:
	[They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain]
	Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
	You are much more attask'd for want of wisdom
	lily-livered, action-taking knave, a whoreson,
	towards you: I have told you what I have seen
	Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
First Apparition	Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
	And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
	at this line: let me see, let me see--
	Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
	Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
	Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
	And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
CAPULET	Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
	Fathers that wear rags
	A combination and a form indeed,
	sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
	[Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool]
	Yet it shall be tempest-tost.
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
REGAN	'Tis most convenient; pray you, go with us.
	in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming
	Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
	All is the fear and nothing is the love;
	I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
	brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;
	[He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it]
	in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
	That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
	And he shall signify from time to time
	[Exeunt severally]
	spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
OSWALD	Yes, madam.
CORNWALL	Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
	So crimeful and so capital in nature,
	Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
	Which, follow'd well, would demonstrate them now
	Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
HAMLET	I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
	'Tis from your sister.
	Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
	And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
	To seal the accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes;
	And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
	Which bewept to the grave did go
LADY CAPULET	No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
KING CLAUDIUS	Thou still hast been the father of good news.
	We will bestow ourselves.
	Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
	And let him know so.
GLOUCESTER	Hearty thanks:
	Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
	fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
	Behind the arras hearing something stir,
	And my imaginations are as foul
	[Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN,
	Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
	War with mankind.
	Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
	To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
	tell my daughter I would speak with her.
	HAMLET
Clown	|
	To tell my story.
LADY MACBETH	To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
CORDELIA	Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
FRIAR LAURENCE	God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
	O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
	Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
	But to the earth some special good doth give,
	Cold death aside, and with the other sends
	Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
MARCELLUS	                  Nor I, my lord, in faith.
ACT V
	And let the wise man fly:
	But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
	could be set up against mortality.
	For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
LAFEU	He looks well on't.
	Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
Gentlewoman	I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
	By him that shall succeed.
	something; make it a word and a blow.
	His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
First Clown	A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
	More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
	Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
SCENE VI	Dunsinane. Before the castle.
	[Exeunt]
	[Exeunt]
	And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
	Thus might he pass indeed: yet he revives.
	Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
	He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
	For a dark hour or twain.
	[Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant]
	I shall not be his wife.
	[Stocks brought out]
	whoreson must be acknowledged. Do you know this
	Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
	In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
	to herself her own words to her own ears; she
GLOUCESTER	I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
HAMLET	Arm'd, say you?
COUNTESS	Love you my son?
LORD POLONIUS	And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
	And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
KING CLAUDIUS	I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
	My services are bound. Wherefore should I
	A good man's fortune may grow out at heels:
	Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
	The incensing relics of it: let him approach,
	To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
	This above all: to thine ownself be true,
	It is thy business that I go about;
	Do thou but call my resolution wise,
HAMLET	How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
LADY MACBETH	Yet here's a spot.
	The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;
	Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
	'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,
	Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
HAMLET	She well instructs me.
	flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
	Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
ROMEO	O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
	shall lose all the sight.
	As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
	[Tucket within]
	sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
	if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
CAPULET	Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
	rash; then must we look to receive from his age,
	flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
	Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
	Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
	But I do prophesy the election lights
CAPULET	God's bread! it makes me mad:
KING	Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
	'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
	out the villain Gloucester.
ACT I
First Soldier	I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
	Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
	I leave you to your wisdom.
	your daughter.
	The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
	Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
	[Exeunt]
	Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
HORATIO	What's that, my lord?
	For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
	And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
EDMUND	It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is
	him, nor any way sustain him.
ROSENCRANTZ	Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
	that is honest; to converse with him that is wise,
	It helps not, it prevails not: talk no more.
	Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.
	Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
	[JULIET wakes]
Messenger	Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
HAMLET	Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
	Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
	And she as much in love, her means much less
PRINCE	Give me the letter; I will look on it.
	These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
PAROLLES	There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the
	To apply to his bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!
	By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
	And top of sovereignty?
	The ring was never hers.
	[Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA]
	then enter Citizens, with clubs]
	Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
Son	Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
	Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
BERNARDO	'Tis here!
	losing of hope by time.
	[Enter EDGAR]
	Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
	Such was the very armour he had on
	He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
HORATIO	I did very well note him.
Nurse	Ay, a thousand times.
	O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
	appears too grossly.
	Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
REGAN	Jesters do oft prove prophets.
	To feeling as to sight? or art thou but
	To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
	Wherever in your sightless substances
	For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
	of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him
	Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
	The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
	Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
	Weary of all, shall want some.
MACBETH	Bring them before us.
	good discretion.
	Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
	But let this same be presently perform'd,
KING CLAUDIUS	Conceit upon her father.
	His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him
	For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it,
LADY MACBETH	But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
ACT III
	And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
PETER	Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
	Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
	More than to see this ring. Take him away.
	Before my daughter told me--what might you,
	KING LEAR
MACBETH	Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
HELENA	Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
KING LEAR	Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
	And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
Clown	At your service.
	Transports his poison'd shot, may miss our name,
	I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
	In what he did profess, well found.
	Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
	Who pays before, but not when he does owe it.
	Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
	Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
	I will say nothing.
	French earl: the honour of a maid is her name; and
	Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
	but something
	For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
	Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
	As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine--
BERTRAM	Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
	The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
COUNTESS	May the world know them?
	A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
PAROLLES	I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
First Lord	But I am sure the younger of our nature,
	Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
KENT	If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
	[To OPHELIA]
FRIAR LAURENCE	These violent delights have violent ends
	my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
LADY MACBETH	Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
	And with thy bloody and invisible hand
	KING LEAR
	on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
	Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring;
	[Exeunt]
KING CLAUDIUS	Not that I think you did not love your father;
EDMUND	It was not brought me, my lord; there's the
	love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
	And that which should accompany old age,
COUNTESS	Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
EDGAR	Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come; no matter vor
	Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
	Have in thy reverence made!
	Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
	Our potency made good, take thy reward.
Nurse	Faith, here it is.
	husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
	Catch in their fury, and make nothing of;
	Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
KING LEAR	Let me ask you one word in private.
	If aught within that little seeming substance,
MACBETH	O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
	Together with the terror of the place,--
	From the report that goes upon your goodness;
	My heart is heavy and mine age is weak;
	Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
	before, which hung so tottering in the balance that
	And then to have a wretched puling fool,
GLOUCESTER	No farther, sir; a man may rot even here.
	Led by a delicate and tender prince,
	Would in so just a business shut his bosom
	He that of greatest works is finisher
	And where the worser is predominant,
	Your noble friends do lack you.
	For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
	O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell,
LADY MACBETH	You must leave this.
	Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
	By playing it to me with so sour a face.
	to the wall.
	Go you, and call my fool hither.
		Give him the cup.
Herald	Again!
JULIET	My only love sprung from my only hate!
HAMLET	To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
	To alter favour ever is to fear:
	Shall never tremble: or be alive again,
	To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
	Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
	Might have the freer course.
	Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
	And with this horrible object, from low farms,
	Stick deep; and in his royalty of nature
	In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
	On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
SCENE II	A camp near Forres.
HORATIO	Ay, good my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ	No, indeed, are they not.
	Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise;
EDMUND	Nor in thine, lord.
	As they fell out by time, by means and place,
KING LEAR	If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
	commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
	That strike beside us.
	horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
CAPULET	                  Peace, you mumbling fool!
	Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
	Were mine at once. No, come thou home, Rousillon,
Servant	Soldiers, sir.
	Thou art the nonpareil.
	And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
	The bell then beating one,--
HAMLET	So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
KING	The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
	Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
OSRIC	A hit, a very palpable hit.
BENVOLIO	By my head, here come the Capulets.
	Call by thy trumpet: he that dares approach,
	And our affairs from England come too late:
	Into a towering passion.
	[Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching]
First Lord	A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
	between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
	I would know that.
	(Servant:)
PARIS	My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
KING LEAR	When we are born, we cry that we are come
	has given you one face, and you make yourselves
First Murderer	But who did bid thee join with us?
	Shall come against him.
	My father watches: O sir, fly this place;
	when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
OSRIC	Sir?
ROMEO	I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now
HAMLET	Nothing.
	Bringing the murderous coward to the stake;
	with us to the king.
	With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch,
	[Striking him]
	Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
	The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
SCENE IV	The platform.
	[Enter POLONIUS]
BERTRAM	How have I sworn!
SCENE V	Juliet's chamber.
HORATIO	No, by no means.
KING LEAR	How old art thou?
	Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
CAPULET	So many guests invite as here are writ.
	Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
	But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
	We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
	Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
	And prey on garbage.
REGAN	I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
	Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
HAMLET	For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
	I will conduct you where you shall be lodged;
First Watchman	A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
	As to expend your time with us awhile,
	In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
LORD POLONIUS	That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
DIANA	Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
	The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
	You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
	The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
HAMLET	Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
CAPULET	When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
	Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
First Player	'Anon he finds him
	Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air,
	how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
JULIET	O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
	On whose employment I was sent to you:
	When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
	But other of your insolent retinue
	[Exit]
	[Exit PAROLLES]
	And, which is worse, all you have done
LAERTES	[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
LADY MACBETH	Only look up clear;
	Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
REGAN	Hang him instantly.
	Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
	So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
	the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
	[Enter MACBETH]
HORATIO	Most constantly.
	Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
	[Exeunt COUNTESS and Gentlemen]
KING	Farewell. Come hither to me.
	[Exit Doctor]
	heart was not consenting to.
	And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
COUNTESS	Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
	I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
	But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
	Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
	Till he faced the slave;
	The wood began to move.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alas, how is't with you,
BERTRAM	I know thou'rt valiant; and, to the possibility of
ROMEO	                  No matter: get thee gone,
	And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
	[Exit First Servant]
	S. Withold footed thrice the old;
	Is thought-sick at the act.
	Directly seasons him his enemy.
HORATIO	Before my God, I might not this believe
	'Tis strange.
ROMEO	Bid her devise
	horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
	[Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD]
	gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
MACBETH	[Aside]  The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step
	man for coughing in the street, because he hath
LADY MACBETH	Now.
OPHELIA	I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
	In deepest consequence.
	[Exit]
Second Lord	This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
	And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
	As I intended, for it wrought on her
EDGAR	Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect
	When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
CAPULET	But Montague is bound as well as I,
	At gaming, swearing, or about some act
	It had been so with us, had we been there:
MACBETH	What news more?
	Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
	Cannot once start me.
	the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
CORNWALL	Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
OSWALD	Madam, I had rather--
	Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
	My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
	Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
	Most welcome home!
	What is the cause of thunder?
	As England was his faithful tributary,
	Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
	That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
	Examine every married lineament,
	Since the first father wore it: this ring he holds
	From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
	ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox in stealth,
	Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
	A braving war.
	Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
	Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
	As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
	Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
	general says, you that have so traitorously
	My son corrupts a well-derived nature
	a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
LADY CAPULET	So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
	accent was a plain knave; which for my part
PAROLLES	My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the
	away,' &c]
	periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
	It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
	Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
	Unfold the imagined happiness that both
OPHELIA	Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
	language you will: though you understand it not
LAFEU	Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
	The one in motley here,
JULIET	Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
	Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
	virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Too familiar
SCENE III	Friar Laurence's cell.
HAMLET	Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
	Would have inform'd for preparation.
	And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
Servant	Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
	too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
	O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
OPHELIA	Will he tell us what this show meant?
	From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
	Hath lost me in your liking.
	She and the duke her husband!
	Leave thy drink and thy whore,
	None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
	The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
CORDELIA	O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
PAROLLES	Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
	Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
	The mystery of your loneliness, and find
PAROLLES	I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
ACT V
	Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
LAERTES	And so have I a noble father lost;
Old Man	Madman and beggar too.
	[Enter BANQUO]
	To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
	Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
	And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
	Of our great quell?
KING	Take her by the hand,
	And take upon's the mystery of things,
	I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
	Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
PAROLLES	Sir?
Gentleman	'Tis so, they are afoot.
Gentleman	This I'll do for you.
	[Enter Nurse, with cords]
	Gentlewoman attending on Lady Macbeth. (Gentlewoman:)
LAFEU	I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
	his valour: what is his honesty?
	Whatever I shall think.
	No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
	To his confine: and of the truth herein
	the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
	shot out in our latter times.
	Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
	Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
	bate thee a scruple.
EDGAR	A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows;
MACBETH	[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
	And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
Fool	We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee
MERCUTIO	If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
	I do forgive thee.
	KING LEAR
SCENE	Denmark.
	the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to
	through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
	when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
	many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
	At his heels a stone.
	Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
KENT	No, my good lord; I am the very man,--
	The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
	mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
	And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
SCENE I	Verona. A public place.
Fool	Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose; that
	Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
LADY MACDUFF	What, with worms and flies?
	Shall I stay here to do't?  no, no, although
	[Exeunt]
	Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
	The which if you with patient ears attend,
	Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
	These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
	tell thee so before, because I would not fall out
	I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
	Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
	So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
	Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
	His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
	All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Have you forgot me?
	Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
OSRIC	How is't, Laertes?
	'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
	strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
	To be opposed against the warring winds?
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
Nurse	My fan, Peter.
	To the great sender turns a sour offence,
	A senseless help when help past sense we deem.
	For 'tis my limited service.
	Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
MACBETH	The service and the loyalty I owe,
	My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
	And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
PAROLLES	Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
	discovered the secrets of your army and made such
	Of a despised life closed in my breast
KING LEAR	Woe, that too late repents,--
GLOUCESTER	Ay, sir.
	Though women all above:
	tongues else for's turn.
	That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
	From a full-flowing stomach. General,
First Witch	A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
	If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
	As to peace-parted souls.
	Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
	The lamentable change is from the best;
	Thou hotly lust'st to use her in that kind
GONERIL	Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
	And to the manner born, it is a custom
MERCUTIO	O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
	I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
COUNTESS	                  He blushes, and 'tis it:
Second Lord	He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
	And, to deal plainly,
	[Exit]
	But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
	[Enter LAFEU]
HAMLET	To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
QUEEN GERTRUDE	For love of God, forbear him.
	[Exit EDGAR]
	or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
	you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
BENVOLIO	I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
	When in your motion you are hot and dry--
	Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
	Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
MERCUTIO	kinsman to the prince, and friend to Romeo.
	steward, that stole his master's daughter.
	Give us the foils. Come on.
PAROLLES	My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
DIANA	For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
BERTRAM	I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
	her than she'll demand.
	against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
	Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
	Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
	The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
	As is the night before some festival
	A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.
Gentleman	Who is conductor of his people?
Widow	Here you shall see a countryman of yours
	[Enter HAMLET]
	Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
	Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
	Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor;
	As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
	That of thy death and business I can tell.
	Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
	[Enter ROMEO]
REGAN	Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
KING LEAR	Darkness and devils!
ROSS	'Gainst nature still!
	is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to
HAMLET	Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
	That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
KING LEAR	Right noble Burgundy,
	herself wittingly.
GLOUCESTER	Methinks the ground is even.
CORNWALL	Where hast thou sent the king?
	What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
	For it must seem their guilt.
HAMLET	My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
First Lord	None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
	A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
	He flashes into one gross crime or other,
HAMLET	Good madam!
	[Enter ROSS and ANGUS]
	As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
	Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
	Of her awaking, here untimely lay
	Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom;
	Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
	Of yonder knight?
BENVOLIO	Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
	I should report that which I say I saw,
HAMLET	Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
BENVOLIO	My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
ROMEO	O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
	Yet you desire to marry.
	And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
	On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
	Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
	To let these hands obey my blood,
	morning for France. The duke hath offered him
	I have served you ever since I was a child;
	Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
	Our means will make us means.
	[Stabs herself]
		   What woman's that?
MARCELLUS	|
	And doth it give me such a sight as this?
	[Exeunt]
	And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
	I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
JULIET	O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
	The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
	Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.
	There, my lord.
	The very firstlings of my heart shall be
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
	Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
	Behold yond simpering dame,
	Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
	Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
ROMEO	The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
	A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
	[Exit Lord]
	beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
COUNTESS	Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
	wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter; when
PAROLLES	[To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
	And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
	old turning the key.
	Of this child-changed father!
	I'll bring you comfort.
	But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard
REGAN	Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
KING	Good fortune and the favour of the king
	knew of their going to bed, and of other motions,
	I'll prove it on thy heart,
	[Enter JULIET]
	Speak, Edmund, where's the king? and where's Cordelia?
	Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
	The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
	Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
LADY CAPULET	wife to Capulet.
	men, though it be the getting of children. Here
KING LEAR	O, vassal! miscreant!
	[Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO]
OPHELIA	Still better, and worse.
	For nature to endure.
	For I have need of many orisons
	O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
	Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;
Second Apparition	Be bloody, bold, and resolute; laugh to scorn
	The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
	And prophesying with accents terrible
	That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
	Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
	Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
	three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
SCENE III	The Duke of Albany's palace.
	Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
	Have overthrown him.
	Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
HAMLET	Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
	Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
	Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
	Until some half-hour past, when I was arm'd:
HELENA	My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
	those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
	Have you so slander any moment leisure,
	is mad, and sent into England.
	So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
MARCELLUS	Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
BERTRAM	All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
	Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
	Which is as thin of substance as the air
	must show fairly outward, should more appear like
EDGAR	I heard myself proclaim'd;
HORATIO	So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
	And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
	In his own course.
	But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Doctor	Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
	Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
	Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
HAMLET	'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
	For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
	The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
	That makes calamity of so long life;
	For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
	hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
HORATIO	                  Good my lord, tell it.
ACT IV
HORATIO	O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
	Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
	And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
	Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions
	(Captain:)
	That are to censure them.
	out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer
	[Enter EDGAR]
BENVOLIO	Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
	[Re-enter GLOUCESTER]
LORD POLONIUS	'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
First Watchman	Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
	And we shall jointly labour with your soul
	And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
HELENA	Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
	Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
	[Exit POLONIUS]
	And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
BERTRAM	Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
	I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
	To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
KENT	Royal Lear,
Sergeant	Doubtful it stood;
	Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
	the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
	(Second Clown:)
	What power is it which mounts my love so high,
BANQUO	                  New horrors come upon him,
	And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
	Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
		 Why, so: being gone,
	Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
Widow	Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we
	Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
	KING LEAR
	Is it the king?
	Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Second Servant	Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
	And not impute this yielding to light love,
Second Servant	I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
	The fundamental reasons of this war,
	I would not for the wealth of all the town
	heritage: and I think I shall never have the
	[Flourish]
	eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
KING LEAR	Why?
	That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
	Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
	Fall, when Love please! marry, to each, but one!
	[Enter Nurse, to the chamber]
OSWALD	steward to Goneril.
	Are here arrived give order that these bodies
	Disguising what they are.
HECATE	O well done! I commend your pains;
	me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
	beholding. Advise the duke, where you are going, to
Widow	Marry, hang you!
	Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,'
	Are joyfully return'd.
JULIET	I will confess to you that I love him.
KING LEAR	What, fifty of my followers at a clap!
MACBETH	Came they not by you?
KING CLAUDIUS	Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
SCENE III	The same.
	Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
	Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
	Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
LAERTES	My will, not all the world:
	This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
	It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
	Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
	Of disobedient opposition
	Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
COUNTESS	You're welcome, gentlemen.
	A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
	carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
	Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots;
EDGAR	Some villain hath done me wrong.
First Clown	Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
	Our setting down before 't.
	[Dies]
	And here he writes that he did buy a poison
OSWALD	Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
	Hark, the duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
HORATIO	I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
	And gave this sentence then;
	Therefore, to the war!
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
	Ghost of Hamlet's Father. (Ghost:)
CAPULET	Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
	Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
	[Exit]
	'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
	Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
	Our wagon is prepared, and time revives us:
	Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
	She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
ROMEO	A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
	For thy undaunted mettle should compose
	False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
	[Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First]
KING	We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
	By cock, they are to blame.
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
First Gentleman	Ay, my good lady, he.
	Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
	More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
	I shall be counsell'd.
	Why does the drum come hither?
JULIET	What must be shall be.
COUNTESS	Son, on my life,
EDMUND	Not a word.
	To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
	Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
	God send her quickly!
COUNTESS	Parolles, was it not?
	A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
ATTENDANT	They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
	A double blessing is a double grace,
	their possets,
	The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
	course for England: of them I have much to tell
	Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
	Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
KENT	I have a journey, sir, shortly to go;
	pass. An chud ha' bin zwaggered out of my life,
ROMEO	Let me stand here till thou remember it.
	Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
	Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass
	And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
EDMUND	I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
	Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
	forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
LADY MACBETH	Donalbain.
	spirit, hath sent me to you.
	My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
Nurse	I speak no treason.
GLOUCESTER	Now let thy friendly hand
REGAN	To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
	Why this same strict and most observant watch
	To shield thee from diseases of the world;
	plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
	Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
	not alone the imperfections of long-engraffed
OSRIC	The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
HORATIO	What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
	before him.
BERTRAM	Will she away to-night?
	Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
	silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
	A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
HAMLET	A king of shreds and patches,--
	Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
BERTRAM	She's none of mine, my lord.
Second Witch	Show!
ROMEO	He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
	[Exeunt]
ALBANY	He knows not what he says: and vain it is
	He knows himself my bed he hath defiled;
	Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
	It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
	By this great clatter, one of greatest note
	Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
Second Servant	You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
	lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
	So the fool follows after.
GONERIL	This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
	I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
	of either's moiety.
EDGAR	      Child Rowland to the dark tower came,
Fool	Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
	She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
	The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
	Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
	time gives it proof. I did love you once.
	[Exit]
	How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
	Against the churches; though the yesty waves
	know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
	He would receive it? he and his physicians
KING LEAR	No seconds? all myself?
	Of bell and burial.
	My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
	[Exit LADY MACDUFF, crying 'Murder!' Exeunt
	Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
HORATIO	So have I heard and do in part believe it.
	For this alliance may so happy prove,
	To give these mourning duties to your father:
	And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
	[Exit]
Nurse	Ay, forsooth.
GLOUCESTER	With all my heart.
	Should loosen him and me.
ACT IV
	REGAN, and CORDELIA]
	Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
	Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
	I'ld say I had eyes again!
JULIET	O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
PAROLLES	Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake
	never shall come off, and show me a child begotten
	Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
	Religious in mine error, I adore
ROSS	Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,
First Priest	Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
COUNTESS	Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
	Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
	a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
	on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
	Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
	What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
ROMEO	Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
	Madam, if you could find out but a man
	To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
	Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
	Craves the conveyance of a promised march
	that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
	very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
	relations to both houses; Maskers,
	Whose violent property fordoes itself
	All in the morning betime,
	The which he lacks; that to provoke in him,
MERCUTIO	Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
	Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
	Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
	Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
	Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
OPHELIA	Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
HELENA	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet,
	The bold winds speechless and the orb below
	Why hath it given me earnest of success,
BALTHASAR	Romeo.
LADY MACBETH	Thou'rt mad to say it:
	Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
	The doors are open; and the surfeited grooms
LADY CAPULET	He is a kinsman to the Montague;
	To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
	As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
SCENE III	A heath near Forres.
Herald	What are you?
	That ever I should live to see thee dead!
EDGAR	What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
MONTAGUE	                  But I can give thee more:
KENT	Most certain, sir.
JULIET	Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
MARCELLUS	How is't, my noble lord?
	Against your vain assault.
	Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
MARCELLUS	                  We have sworn, my lord, already.
	[Knocking]
	sick health!
	Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
	Ten masts at each make not the altitude
	To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day!
	And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
	But I have that within which passeth show;
	Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
PAROLLES	Lose our drum! well.
	And madly play with my forefather's joints?
	[Enter CAPULET]
Fool	No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;
	good fortunes.
	And then will I be general of your woes,
LORD POLONIUS	It shall do well: but yet do I believe
Third Witch	There to meet with Macbeth.
	Is 't not the king?
	I dreamt my master and another fought,
KING	Upon thy certainty and confidence
SCENE IV	A plain in Denmark.
	What if it be a poison, which the friar
	ROMEO AND JULIET
BERNARDO	Well, good night.
	Yet have I something in me dangerous,
	But to recover of us, by strong hand
HORATIO	That can I;
EDMUND	Sir, I thought it fit
	And Florence is denied before he comes:
	Under thy own life's key: be cheque'd for silence,
	Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
Captain	Against some part of Poland.
KING CLAUDIUS	Alas, alas!
	[Enter HECATE to the other three Witches]
	The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
HAMLET	O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
	O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
	But take the High'st to witness: then, pray you, tell me,
Fool	Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
	A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
	PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets]
CORDELIA	Had you not been their father, these white flakes
EDGAR	Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
BERNARDO	|
	[Exeunt]
	Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
	I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
SCENE I	A public place.
HAMLET	Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
	Resolvedly more leisure shall express:
PETER	Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
Nurse	By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
	What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
GLOUCESTER	Think you so?
Second Lord	I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly
	Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot
KENT	                  Good my lord, enter here.
	Look up a-height; the shrill-gorged lark so far
HAMLET	O, wonderful!
GLOUCESTER	Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:
DUKE OF ALBANY	(ALBANY:)
	To hear him so inclined.
HORATIO	Not I, my lord, by heaven.
	And give me mine again.
	And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
	By many of these trains hath sought to win me
LORD POLONIUS	Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
HORATIO	It beckons you to go away with it,
	They shall go far with little.
	the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
	And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
	Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
First Clown	A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
	What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
	When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
	should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
	For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
Doctor	Be by, good madam, when we do awake him;
	And her immortal part with angels lives.
	By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
MACDUFF	The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
	your breeding.
	As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
JULIET	Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
MERCUTIO	I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
	Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
	Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
	So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
	To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
	'Tis hard to reconcile.
	And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
	slower; and, as I say, retire with me to my
	Look, here comes a pilgrim: I know she will lie at
	That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
LORD POLONIUS	If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
	My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
	Due to some single breast?
	Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
	O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
	This is not much.
GLOUCESTER	Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
	with divers young Lords taking leave for the
	[Exit]
	And from her derogate body never spring
GLOUCESTER	The king is in high rage.
HAMLET	O God!
KENT	I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
EDMUND	So please your lordship, none.
ROMEO	Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
	Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
	I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
Third Watchman	Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
	Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
First Soldier	Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
	How oft when men are at the point of death
Doctor	Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
MACDUFF	Bleed, bleed, poor country!
GLOUCESTER	Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
	to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
	The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
	Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
	You mainly were stirr'd up.
	my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
	[Exit]
	if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
	For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
	We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
	May give his saying deed; which is no further
JULIET	[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
EDMUND	The enemy's in view; draw up your powers.
	I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
HAMLET	They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
KENT	Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
	Attendants]
	king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
KENT	Do:
Ghost	Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
	Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
	enough to make such knaveries yours.
HAMLET	I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
HORATIO	O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
	A Soldier.
FLEANCE	I take't, 'tis later, sir.
	Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
HAMLET	From top to toe?
FRIAR LAURENCE	Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
	Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
	made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ,
	pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
COUNTESS	Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
BENVOLIO	Romeo will answer it.
	workman, a very good tailor.
	The cod-piece that will house
	Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
	MALCOLM, SIWARD, ROSS, the other Thanes, and Soldiers]
	So clear in his great office, that his virtues
	Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
	That in the natures of their lords rebel;
GLOUCESTER	O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
Doctor	Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
	Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
	But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
MACBETH	Fail not our feast.
	Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
	The air of paradise did fan the house
	I and my hundred knights.
	thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast
ROSS	That now
MALCOLM	I thank you, doctor.
	That set him high in fame.
HAMLET	Sir, I cannot.
	Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
	'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
HELENA	I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
	There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
	For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
	All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
	hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
ACT II
	I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
Ghost	Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
	Look there, look there!
	Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
	My son's no dearer.
	Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
	Put strength enough to't.
	that cry out on the top of question, and are most
	Or else worth all the rest; I see thee still,
BENVOLIO	But new struck nine.
	I cannot live to hear the news from England;
	cannot choose; and to eat no fish.
	Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
GLOUCESTER	How fell you out? say that.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O, speak to me no more;
	And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
	As checking at his voyage, and that he means
	Of man and country.
	himself on the expectation of plenty: come in
	Might you not know she would do as she has done,
KING LEAR	Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
	thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
	Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
	As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
First Clown	Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
	they hold up Adam's profession.
	Outrun the pauser, reason. Here lay Duncan,
	Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
GLOUCESTER	In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
	To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
COUNTESS	Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law:
MACDUFF	Turn, hell-hound, turn!
	White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
HAMLET	What hour now?
	And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
	To make die with a restorative.
	And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
	Finding it so inclined.
KING LEAR	Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains:
EDGAR	But, by your favour,
	Her estimation home.
	Our free hearts each to other.
	To County Paris, to prepare him up
KING LEAR	You must bear with me:
	condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
	And brokes with all that can in such a suit
	[Re-enter GLOUCESTER]
	The fishermen, that walk upon the beach,
	This is the very painting of your fear:
	lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
	And wears upon his baby-brow the round
	To prostitute our past-cure malady
	Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
	And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
	HAMLET
	Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
	Suspecting that we both were in a house
	What, in our house?
LADY CAPULET	Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
	For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
	Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
	But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
	To punish me with this and this with me,
	Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
	my tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the
	I doubt not of his temperance.
	Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
	Well may you prosper!
	Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,
	That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
	How much salt water thrown away in waste,
	Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
	honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
Doctor	[Aside]  Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
	I'd shake it on this quarrel. What do you mean?
	herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
SIWARD	Fare you well.
	To Lammas-tide?
	In what vile part of this anatomy
	[Enter a Gentleman, with Attendants]
	MACBETH
	I must be cruel, only to be kind:
	Collected from all simples that have virtue
HAMLET	Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
	Does not become a sword: thy great employment
	For those that mingle reason with your passion
	condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
	in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
	Hark! Peace!
ROSENCRANTZ	|
	To leave no rubs nor botches in the work--
JULIET	Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
	We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
	To her, whose state is such that cannot choose
	To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
	The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
HORATIO	                  Good my lord, be quiet.
	Of general assault.
	By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
	worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
MACDUFF	Let our just censures
	And that I see, in passages of proof,
ALBANY	O Goneril!
		  How now! what news?
LAFEU	These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
	What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
	And was a common gamester to the camp.
	Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
	In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
	Only for them; and mine eternal jewel
	dearer father in my love.
	Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
Second Lord	Hath the count all this intelligence?
	Five days we do allot thee, for provision
	They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
	And yet not so; since, I am sure, my love's
	Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
	Can touch him further.
	Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
BURGUNDY	Royal Lear,
	the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
	He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
	When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
	Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
	[Enter EDGAR]
ROSENCRANTZ	I understand you not, my lord.
	For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
EDGAR	Poor Tom's a-cold.
ROSENCRANTZ	Most like a gentleman.
	|  Franciscans.
	Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
	That I must be their scourge and minister.
HAMLET	I do not think so: since he went into France, I
MACBETH	I'll call upon you straight: abide within.
	Thy token of reprieve.
	Tell me what more thou know'st.
	Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
	HAMLET
	Which are the children of an idle brain,
MARIANA	And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
KING CLAUDIUS	Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
	Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
	If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
	[Enter PRINCE, with Attendants]
First Watchman	Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
EDGAR	I was forbid it.
LADY CAPULET	That same villain, Romeo.
	dog's obeyed in office.
	thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:
Ghost	 So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
First Clown	Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
SCENE III	Florence. Before the DUKE's palace.
REGAN	Out, treacherous villain!
FLEANCE	The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
HAMLET	Hear you, sir;
	His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
EDMUND	My services to your lordship.
REGAN	Himself in person there?
GLOUCESTER	Naughty lady,
	And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
	Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
	proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
	Come in, without there!
First Soldier	Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
	An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth!
HELENA	[Reads]  Till I have no wife I have nothing in France.
	From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
	say him nay.
	But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
SAMPSON	Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
	And yet I know not: thou didst hate her deadly,
	Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
	And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
	A mother and a mistress and a friend,
BENVOLIO	There lies that Tybalt.
	Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds
	warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
	Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
MARIANA	Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
	As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
	Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
	What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
	If by direct or by collateral hand
Third Musician	Faith, I know not what to say.
	But get thee back; my soul is too much charged
	Err in report of us.
	Then the charm is firm and good.
	Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
KING CLAUDIUS	Our son shall win.
	name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
	Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
OSWALD	Out, dunghill!
	[Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES]
	good quarrel, and the law on my side.
	When thou liest howling.
	O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
	Who is too good to pity thee.
	As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
First Clown	Very strangely, they say.
	Know Banquo was your enemy.
GUILDENSTERN	|
	Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
	I have forgot him: my imagination
	Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
	No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
	For here we need it not.
	To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
	With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
	O, a pit of clay for to be made
Gentleman	What's your will?
	For such a guest is meet.
	|             My lord, from head to foot.
	He might have bought me at a common price:
	|	What's the matter.
	Pursued my life.
	And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
	I conjure only but to raise up him.
	dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
	To any pastime?
	it were his; but, in respect of that, I would
	of fourteen; I have known thee already.
	offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
	If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
HAMLET	Ay, marry, is't:
	O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
BENVOLIO	Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
	Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
DIANA	They say the French count has done most honourable service.
	Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
Servant	He met the duke in the street, sir, of whom he hath
	Over the nasty sty,--
	The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
	Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
	O, methought, there was nothing meet.
	[Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO]
	When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
	Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
	Environed with all these hideous fears?
	Itself for being there?
LAFEU	But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
	What comfort to this great decay may come
HAMLET	He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
	The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
	Takes from his high respect: thither Macduff
	broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
DUNCAN	This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
JULIET	O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
	The true blank of thine eye.
	So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
	When we would bring him on to some confession
Old Man	Fellow, where goest?
	[Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR]
	And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
	His access to me.
	That before you, and next unto high heaven,
	As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
	A scullion!
	clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him
	Go to thy death-bed:
MACBETH	Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
	Had I it written, I would tear the word.
ROSENCRANTZ	Good my lord!
	The Prince of Cumberland; which honour must
	[Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS]
	I departed not and left him there.
	king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
	The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep
	This mad young man: but so much was our love,
	[Flourish. Exeunt]
	To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
	Ere they can hide their levity in honour;
	So, thanks to all at once and to each one,
OPHELIA	No, my lord.
	He took my father grossly, full of bread;
	To muddy death.
	And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
	Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
	no truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
	[Offering KENT his cap]
LAFEU	No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta
	though this knave came something saucily into the
	And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
BERNARDO	It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
	the least syllable of thy addition.
ROMEO	Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
	As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
	wisdom? so.
	But know not how to do it.
	And I, the mistress of your charms,
	[Exeunt]
	To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
OSWALD	I'll not be struck, my lord.
	Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
ROMEO	Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
	To see thy son and heir more early down.
	Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
	that thou't scarce worth.
	Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
	I would have made them skip: I am old now,
	[Exit FRIAR LAURENCE]
	goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
	And pious action we do sugar o'er
	[Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter]
LAFEU	A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
	If damned custom have not brass'd it so
	[March within]
	For some must watch, while some must sleep:
	Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
	white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
KENT	No contraries hold more antipathy
	ask you what it means, say you this:
SCENE	Rousillon; Paris; Florence; Marseilles.
	But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
SCENE II	Florence. The Widow's house.
	And leads the will to desperate undertakings
HELENA	Ay, surely, mere the truth: I know his lady.
	[One calls within 'Juliet.']
	daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
EARL OF GLOUCESTER	(GLOUCESTER:)
	By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
BERTRAM	My high-repented blames,
	reading it he changed almost into another man.
	Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
	As thou my sometime daughter.
	hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so
	Rive your concealing continents, and cry
PAROLLES	O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
	he will keep out water a great while; and your water
	O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
	button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
	But by and by comes back to Romeo,
	[Exit Gentleman]
	And, as the world were now but to begin,
	The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
ACT IV
ACT I
	From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
	Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
	The time and my intents are savage-wild,
	her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
	Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
	As it is common for the younger sort
	Shakes so my single state of man that function
	Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
MERCUTIO	By my heel, I care not.
	See you now;
	Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Nurse	Anon, anon!
	him. But to answer you as you would be understood;
	Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
	him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
	That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
PAROLLES	Just, you say well; so would I have said.
	To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
	Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
MERCUTIO	No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
	Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
	That stretch their duties nicely.
SAMPSON	|
	Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
Doctor	Well, well, well,--
	differences, of very soft society and great showing:
	Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
PRINCE	Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
	Where most it promises, and oft it hits
	Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
	'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
	happily effected.
	Is he not here?
	Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
	[Exeunt]
	You know my father left me some prescriptions
	[Exit]
	Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
	bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
	Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
MACDUFF	Boundless intemperance
	find him not there, seek him i' the other place
	higher, or return again into France?
ACT III
	I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
	Our foster-nurse of nature is repose,
	With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
	And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
	Will in concealment wrap me up awhile;
	Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
	That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
ROSS	I'll see it done.
ALBANY	Haste thee, for thy life.
	contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
	By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
Fool	Mark it, nuncle:
First Clown	What is he that builds stronger than either the
HAMLET	He will stay till ye come.
	My reason all the same; and they are ready
Knight	Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
HAMLET	I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
	the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
ROSENCRANTZ	Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
	[Enter HELENA and Clown]
	This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
Clown	Faith there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine
	Which very manners urges.
	That ever yet they heard.
MALCOLM	Be not offended:
GLOUCESTER	Methinks you're better spoken.
	Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
	good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
COUNTESS	Why should he be killed?
GONERIL	Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
	Do thou for him stand:
	One scene of it comes near the circumstance
	For ever knit.
	How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
	Could never plant in me.
MACBETH	Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
	Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
HAMLET	If she should break it now!
EDGAR	Ay, master.
MACDUFF	They were suborn'd:
	Let not your hate encounter with my love
	With tristful visage, as against the doom,
	To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
	In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
	To give thee from our royal master thanks;
	[Enter CAPULET and Nurse]
SCENE III	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
	Let him fear this, for it will come to pass
	[Kneeling]
	Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;
	such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no
	Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
	I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
	What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
	For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
	sweet sorrow,
ROMEO	What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
	'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
	Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
	The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
	And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
GUILDENSTERN	What should we say, my lord?
	Good things of day begin to droop and drowse;
	But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
KING LEAR	I'll see their trial first. Bring in the evidence.
	change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES]
	Be all my sins remember'd.
KING	I'll fee thee to stand up.
COUNTESS	[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
	KING LEAR
	If quick fire of youth light not your mind,
	the complaints I have heard of you I do not all
	For food and diet, to some enterprise
	So 'tis our will he should.
	leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
	All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
	With that malignant cause wherein the honour
	with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
	For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
COUNTESS	Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
	But that I know them: do they charge me further?
	[Exeunt]
	The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
	Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
	With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
MACBETH	She should have died hereafter;
BERTRAM	It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
	Exposing what is mortal and unsure
	wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
First Lord	O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
	I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
	Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
	It is enough I may but call her mine.
	With all my imperfections on my head:
GUILDENSTERN	The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
	He only lived but till he was a man;
	all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor;' by which title,
ROMEO	By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
GLOUCESTER	You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
	myself, to be in a due resolution.
	Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
	not.
	Improper for a slave.
	And find your grace in health.
	As you owe to your wife.
Doctor	A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once
	[Pointing to Goneril]
	come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
OPHELIA	I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
ACT II
	If I say sooth, I must report they were
	And yet I know not how conceit may rob
	Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
	To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
BERNARDO	How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
	When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
	By her, that else will take the thing she begs,
	The need we have to use you did provoke
ROMEO	Whose house?
	O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
	I am in this earthly world; where to do harm
	de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
	And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes;
	To County Paris: then comes she to me,
	How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
	Against my near'st of life: and though I could
	Citizens of Verona; several Men and Women,
KING LEAR	To have a thousand with red burning spits
	To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
	And hold thee to my heart.
	Come on't what will.
HAMLET	At supper.
	both the office of God and the devil? One brings
EDGAR	Gone, sir: farewell.
	Her father and myself, lawful espials,
PARIS	Younger than she are happy mothers made.
	Death lies on her like an untimely frost
	[Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two
	And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
	Which men full true shall find;
LAFEU	To what is count's man: count's master is of
KING CLAUDIUS	With all my heart; and it doth much content me
FRIAR LAURENCE	That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
	We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage:
	Soldiers, &c]
MERCUTIO	And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
	Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
REGAN	The messengers from our sister and the king.
	With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
	And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
OPHELIA	Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
Both Murderers	True, my lord.
MACDUFF	He is already named, and gone to Scone
	These hands are not more like.
DIANA	Alas, poor lady!
	till some little time hath qualified the heat of
	Are less than horrible imaginings:
HAMLET	I must to England; you know that?
	[Exit]
	To the unsatisfied.
	Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
	A violet in the youth of primy nature,
	That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
BENVOLIO	I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
	Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
	him for me, he's more and more a cat.
	(First Servant:)
	Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
	The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure
	tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	I will give you the minstrel.
ACT II
	Which would be planted newly with the time,
	Lest it may mar your fortunes.
	Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
	That westward rooteth from the city's side,
	To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
PRINCE	This letter doth make good the friar's words,
	show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,
	We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
DUNCAN	Great happiness!
	As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
	Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
	Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
Fool	Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
HAMLET	There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
	He brings great news.
	Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Gentleman	I have been sometimes there.
	From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
	He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
Nurse	Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
	'An if a man did need a poison now,
Doctor	Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
	Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
	And thus the native hue of resolution
	me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
	For I by vow am so embodied yours,
	My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
	And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
ALBANY	Sir, you have shown to-day your valiant strain,
BENVOLIO	No, coz, I rather weep.
	Fall on thy head! Farewell, my lord;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
	As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
Gentleman	You are a royal one, and we obey you.
	That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he--
	[Drawing his sword]
HAMLET	'Tis very strange.
	So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
Nurse	It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
	In his bright radiance and collateral light
	And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
PAROLLES	What the devil should move me to undertake the
	A fellow to it.
	And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
	Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
	[Giving a paper]
	But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
	From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest
	Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure:
	And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
	Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
	And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
	And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
	Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
	Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
	He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
	Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
	By the misprising of a maid too virtuous
	Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce; but thine
	to myself; they'll be snatching. Give me an egg,
	Augurs and understood relations have
	With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
HAMLET	Speak; I am bound to hear.
	Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
LADY CAPULET	I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
	That I must call't in question.
	The very place puts toys of desperation,
	And hath abatements and delays as many
	On my particular. Prepared I was not
	And there did seem in him a kind of joy
	an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you:
	course; where, if you violently proceed against
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
	Our innocent self: this I made good to you
	You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
	Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
	More richer than my tongue.
	[Aside]
	No more to undertake it, I will work him
	Impossible be strange attempts to those
ROMEO	What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
GLOUCESTER	Let him fly far:
First Murderer	It was, so please your highness.
	I must not look to have; but, in their stead,
GLOUCESTER	I know that voice.
	Her mother is the lady of the house,
	And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
	When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
BERTRAM	He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
	|
	this I am not certain.
MACBETH	We hear, our bloody cousins are bestow'd
	Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
	Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
	be i' the camp, a Frenchman; what his reputation is
Second Lord	Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
Gentleman	Gracious sovereign,
	If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
	Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
	It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
	Do you but mark how this becomes the house:
	Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
	Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
	I pray you, now receive them.
CORDELIA	Alack, 'tis he: why, he was met even now
	Allows itself to any thing.
	He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
	press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
	And like a sister am most loath to call
	Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
	Not knowing them until we know their grave:
	better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
REGAN	We shall further think on't.
	To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
LAFEU	I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture,
CORDELIA	So young, my lord, and true.
SCENE I	GLOUCESTER's castle.
ROSS	And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
MACDUFF	Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,
KING	All is whole;
	Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
	That if they come to sojourn at my house,
	world; but yet she is not well.
	I am for the air; this night I'll spend
	Staying for thine to keep him company:
	To hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hair
	Your majesty loads our house: for those of old,
	And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
	To love my father all.
	[Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen
	Rough-hew them how we will,--
	[Flourish. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX,
	The fitchew, nor the soiled horse, goes to 't
	As he was coming from this churchyard side.
	In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
	I do receive your offer'd love like love,
HELENA	Is it yourself?
	And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
	Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
	By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
	nether-stocks.
ROSENCRANTZ	[To POLONIUS]  God save you, sir!
	[TYBALT under ROMEO's arm stabs MERCUTIO, and flies
	off his drum in any hand.
	With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd;
HAMLET	Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
	stairs into the lobby.
HAMLET	Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
	Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
	Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
	through thee. Give me thy hand.
	That one short minute gives me in her sight:
	a farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
	fain to hang you.
	O most pernicious woman!
	But, if you hold it fit, after the play
	For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
ROMEO	Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
	Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
	Have done to this.
	Was then scarce friends with him: I have heard
	[Exit]
	We have willing dames enough: there cannot be
HELENA	That it will please you
	Within the centre.
	Nor will you tender less.
	In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
	All my smooth body.
	that without any further delay than this very evening.
	To hear and see the matter.
	You must not put another scandal on him,
	But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
	Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
	prediction; there's son against father: the king
	And hears it roar beneath.
HORATIO	You might have rhymed.
	His countenance for the battle; which being done,
First Lord	O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum;
	That we have had no time to move our daughter:
	To lay the blame upon her own despair,
	Each part, deprived of supple government,
	hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
	admit no discourse to your beauty.
	Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
	Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
	Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
	Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'
	Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
	And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
	Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
	And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
	more choler.
	As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed.
	But she knows what she does.
HAMLET	The point!--envenom'd too!
	You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
	Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
	i' the world.
	not men o' their words: they told me I was every
	majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
	As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
HAMLET	[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
	You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
	To cure the desperate languishings whereof
	'hic jacet.'
	Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
MERCUTIO	Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
Nurse	Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
	Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
	Lives in the English court, and is received
	betwixt us. Farewell, dear sister: farewell, my
	Who hath for four or five removes come short
	For he himself is subject to his birth:
	[Leaps into the grave]
	upon your traitorous father are not fit for your
	Where got'st thou that goose look?
	The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
	How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
	[BERTRAM gives a ring]
Doctor	Do you mark that?
	And gather by him, as he is behaved,
	Deal between thee and me! for even now
	Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
	Make the gruel thick and slab:
	Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
	Your wisdom best shall think.
	Here in my house do him disparagement:
	That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
HAMLET	O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
	Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
	knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
	thee, good man's son, from the foul fiend! five
	[Exeunt]
	And he to England shall along with you:
	house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual
	His beard was as white as snow,
	[Exit]
	And these few precepts in thy memory
	That ever I have felt.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
	After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
	looked to, without any tricks.
	be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
TYBALT	I am for you.
KING LEAR	She cannot deny it.
	Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
	That I to your assistance do make love,
	But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
	ask you a question. Man is enemy to virginity; how
MACBETH	Which of you have done this?
	And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
	He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,
	He had no other death's-man. Let us see:
	'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
	Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
	the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
	My love as it begins shall so persever.
	Will you be ruled by me?
	Lest that the infection of his fortune take
	This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
	nose; or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get
Clown	From below your duke to beneath your constable, it
	It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
	To hear of pleasure's name;
SCENE II	The same.
KING LEAR	Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
	Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
	Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
GREGORY	No, marry; I fear thee!
MACBETH	As I descended?
	Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
	We beg your hearing patiently.
KING CLAUDIUS	Give me some light: away!
	So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
	Makes us hear something.
	Your business of the world hath so an end,
	[He goeth down]
	laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
	And follow me, that will to some provision
	Who is already sick and pale with grief,
	[Enter Murderers]
	[Enter KING, HELENA, and Attendants. LAFEU and
HAMLET	Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
	to the wall.
	When second husband kisses me in bed.
LAFEU	I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
	Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
	Into the staggers and the careless lapse
	[Thunder. Second Apparition: A bloody Child]
	God ha' mercy on his soul!
HAMLET	Never make known what you have seen to-night.
HELENA	I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
SCENE III	A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
	They'll mar my counterfeiting.
DIANA	Good my lord,
	County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
Nurse	Go, you cot-quean, go,
KING CLAUDIUS	It shall be so:
	We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
KING LEAR	Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
	Hath trifled former knowings.
	deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward,
	It pleased the king his master very late
	[Opens the gate]
EDMUND	Sir, I shall study deserving.
Second Servant	Ay, boy, ready.
	I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
Gentleman	Good sir,--
Clown	You're shallow, madam, in great friends; for the
MACBETH	Thou wast born of woman
	[Exit Steward]
JULIET	Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
SCENE I	A desert place.
	house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
	Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
	'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
HELENA	His name, I pray you.
	It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
	[Exit]
GUILDENSTERN	Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
PAROLLES	An idle lord. I swear.
Nurse	Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
	honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
	heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
	May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
	For I come hither arm'd against myself:
	To heaven.
MACDUFF	Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
	transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
	Her vestal livery is but sick and green
	But that this folly douts it.
BERTRAM	I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to
	And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
	The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
	To have found a safe redress; but now grow fearful,
	I cannot daub it further.
	thy wrongs;
	In rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,
	That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
COUNTESS	I would I had not known him; it was the death of the
Clown	So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
	Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
	To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
	Hear it not, Duncan; for it is a knell
	But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
	But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
	Not so big as a round little worm
PRINCE	We still have known thee for a holy man.
	[Enter LADY CAPULET]
	What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
HORATIO	What is it ye would see?
	[Exit EDGAR]
	Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
	Because he married me before to Romeo?
	When living light should kiss it?
	[Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within]
	One of them we behold.
	As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
ROMEO	What, shall I groan and tell thee?
	'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
DIANA	I'll never tell you.
	Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
ROMEO	Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
MACDUFF	|
JULIET	Romeo!
	Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
	lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
	May be the devil: and the devil hath power
HELENA	That I am not.
	Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
First Lord	You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
Fool	Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
	I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
HAMLET	It will not speak; then I will follow it.
EDMUND	Look, sir, I bleed.
HAMLET	I beseech you, remember--
	Where such as thou mayst find him.
	But sadly tell me who.
KENT	[Kneeling]  O my good master!
	Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
	world; let his nobility remain in's court. I am for
	|   [Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
	Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
PRINCE	Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
	To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
HAMLET	I do beseech you.
DIANA	By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
ANGUS	|
	Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
	But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
	Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
	[pausing]
	The affliction nor the fear.
	Requite him for your father.
	[Exeunt]
	With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
	Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
	When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
	|
Doctor	Madam, sleeps still.
	PROLOGUE
	His silence will sit drooping.
	Will I set up my everlasting rest,
	it into your pocket? the quality of nothing hath
	A lover may bestride the gossamer
	She could have run and waddled all about;
KENT	With the earl, sir, here within.
	Nay, come not near th' old man; keep out, che vor
	Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
	[Re-enter OPHELIA]
	So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
	unmannerly.
	you.
		          Now, fellow,
	Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
	Good night, mother.
	Drawn with a team of little atomies
	The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
	And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
	All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
ROMEO	In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
	In noise so rude against me?
Servant	There is ten thousand--
KING LEAR	A bitter fool!
HAMLET	I mean, my head upon your lap?
	Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
	Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
	Unless that husband send it me from heaven
	[Enter Watch, with the Page of PARIS]
		         What is this
ACT V
KING CLAUDIUS	What do you call the play?
	Hopest thou my cure?
SCENE I	Paris. The KING's palace.
GLOUCESTER	It is his.
	Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
	What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
	Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
	[Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE]
	For beauty starved with her severity
	A very noble youth: mark.
	[Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO]
HORATIO	Remember it, my lord?
	[Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN,
	Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
LAFEU	Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
	At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
	By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour
LAFEU	How called you the man you speak of, madam?
	Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
KING LEAR	No, I say.
MACBETH	No, nor more fearful.
HORATIO	No, my good lord.
	Against their father, fool me not so much
Doctor	Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
	[Exit]
	Nurse! What should she do here?
	For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
	foolish ear.
COUNTESS	Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
GLOUCESTER	Because I would not see thy cruel nails
	What is the reason that you use me thus?
	If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
	But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
JULIET	Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
ALBANY	Pray, sir, be patient.
	undermine you and blow you up.
KING CLAUDIUS	A Norman.
	And my more-having would be as a sauce
	If 't be the affliction of his love or no
	now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
	himself for your succession in Denmark?
	His secret murders sticking on his hands;
ROSENCRANTZ	|
	And must needs taste his folly.
	Slain by his servant, going to put out
	Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
CORNELIUS	|
	From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
	He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
	will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great
	And watch'd the time to shoot.
	Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
	[Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND]
REYNALDO	Very good, my lord.
	And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
	Is't real that I see?
	The insolence of office and the spurns
	[Tearing off his clothes]
	[Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN]
	Oft does them by the weakest minister:
	Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
	[Throws up a skull]
Second Murderer	Then 'tis he: the rest
MALCOLM	My countryman; but yet I know him not.
HAMLET	He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
HELENA	You go so much backward when you fight.
	Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
	I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
MARCELLUS	'Tis gone, and will not answer.
	In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
	That he should hither come as this dire night,
	I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring;
	Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
	[Sings]
	Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Second Lord	How deep?
	child. We have seen the best of our time:
	Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
	Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
	Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
ROSENCRANTZ	My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
	sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
	A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
	Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
	And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this,
	Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
	And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
First Soldier	O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
	[Enter COUNTESS and Clown]
	Upon thy promising fortune.
	His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
	I will bestow him, and will answer well
BERNARDO	'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
HAMLET	Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
	Owes nothing to thy blasts. But who comes here?
	Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
DIANA	Sir, much like
	one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
	Here he comes.
	This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
	Put rancours in the vessel of my peace
	Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
	first. Come.
	want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
	And all the honours that can fly from us
ROSENCRANTZ	'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
EDGAR	A serving-man, proud in heart and mind; that curled
	That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
	For, with throwing thus my head,
HAMLET	I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
	So, proceed you.
	To take upon you what is yours: you may
	Driving back shadows over louring hills:
	O heavy burthen!
	Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
LAERTES	Know you the hand?
	The day is broke; be wary, look about.
DIANA	                  I have spoke the truth.
	widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely
	Play something like the murder of my father
	More than in words?
	By any other name would smell as sweet;
	Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
	Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
MACDUFF	Those that Macbeth hath slain.
	set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
	I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
	out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
	Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
	How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
	Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
	With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats;
	So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
Widow	Now I see
	That going shall be used with feet.
	base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
	Lords, Officers, Soldiers, &c., French and Florentine.
	Do better upon them.
	Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
	great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
KENT	No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
	That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
	As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
	[Exeunt all except HAMLET]
	HAMLET
	We are coming thither: gracious England hath
	Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still;
JULIET	Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
	Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
	He is too good and fair for death and me:
HAMLET	Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
	Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
	Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
	Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
	his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at
	A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
	this very instant disaster of his setting i' the
GLOUCESTER	Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
BERTRAM	Count of Rousillon.
	Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,
	|                   Ay, by heaven, my lord.
CORDELIA	Still, still, far wide!
	What, ho! apothecary!
Nurse	No truly sir; not a penny.
GLOUCESTER	No words, no words: hush.
DIANA	'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
	Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
	His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
	they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alack,
	Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
	To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
PAROLLES	So please your majesty, my master hath been an
	All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
EDGAR	'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
	the body. The king is a thing--
KING OF FRANCE	This is most strange,
Both Murderers	We are resolved, my lord.
	To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
	fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
KENT	How fares your grace?
	Yet what can it when one can not repent?
ALBANY	What news?
	Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
SCENE V	Another part of the platform.
	I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
	though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
LORD POLONIUS	[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
	You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Fool	   Her boat hath a leak,
	Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
	Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
	Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
ACT I
MACBETH	There's comfort yet; they are assailable;
	The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
	With them they think on? Things without all remedy
KENT	Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
LADY CAPULET	The people in the street cry Romeo,
	Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
	I once did hold it, as our statists do,
HAMLET	Words, words, words.
	Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
	Derived from the ancient Capilet:
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
	In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
HAMLET	A murderer and a villain;
	Tom will make them weep and wail:
	You're great in fortune.
	Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
HAMLET	O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
Second Lord	God bless you, Captain Parolles.
	(Third Murderer:)
	To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
	Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
HELENA	Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
ROSS	Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
	Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
	Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
	[Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and
HORATIO	Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
	Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
	Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
	He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
	I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
	What company, at what expense; and finding
KING LEAR	Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
	That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
	[Enter MACBETH]
	In evils to top Macbeth.
	Make instruments to plague us:
	person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
	Go tell the duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them,
	Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
	And I will do it without fear or doubt,
HAMLET	                  Why, what should be the fear?
	[Exit]
	An Old Man
	An old man, cousin to Capulet. (Second Capulet:)
	That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
	Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
	In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
	We are yet but young in deed.
	And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
First Witch	Thou'rt kind.
CORDELIA	We are not the first
EDMUND	I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
	As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
	hours at the trade.
Herald	Again!
HAMLET	Nay, but to live
	[Exit]
SIWARD	Earl of Northumberland, general of the English forces.
	And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
	Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
KING LEAR	Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
	But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands:
	And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
	That ever penury, in contempt of man,
	Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
HELENA	Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
HAMLET	Why,
	And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
	What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
	Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	This is mere madness:
	But love, dear love, and our aged father's right:
	an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
	I am sure of that: and at her late being here
	KING LEAR
LORD POLONIUS	Fare you well, my lord.
	[Reads]
JULIET	By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
	Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
	That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
	He that conceals him, death.
	this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
	my life, except my life.
KING CLAUDIUS	Good Laertes,
	And what love can do that dares love attempt;
	And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
	As low as to the fiends!'
	But one to dance with! By heaven, I'll steal away.
	That writes them all alike: and so of men.
	The same upon your finger.
	ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
	tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur:
Fool	All thy other titles thou hast given away; that
HORATIO	I beseech you.
PAROLLES	Keep him out.
	(Second Musician:)
	[Exit]
	Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
	Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
KENT	Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor
	such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
	knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
	the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:
	If you will take a homely man's advice,
OSWALD	So please you,--
	As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
	That were the opposites of this day's strife:
	But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
ROMEO	This shall determine that.
	to question them further, they made themselves air,
ROSENCRANTZ	To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
	Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
	Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
	For strangers to my nature. I am yet
KENT	Sir, I do know you;
	Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
HAMLET	Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
KING LEAR	O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
	Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
Clown	Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the
	I had my father's signet in my purse,
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
	their books,
	As clears her from all blame.
	Not one of those but had a noble father.
DIANA	It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
	But let that go.
HAMLET	I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
	[Exit BALTHASAR]
	Holla the other.
	We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
	Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
	And with a sudden vigour doth posset
	[Exeunt some Servants]
	the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
	His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
	So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
	Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
	I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
	think, being too strong for him, though he took
SAMPSON	If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
	the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
	A second time I kill my husband dead,
MARCELLUS	Nor I, my lord.
LAFEU	He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose
	For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
	[Dies]
HAMLET	Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
	Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy
	That speak him full of grace.
Second Lord	He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
	Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
	Whose face between her forks presages snow;
DIANA	I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
	Life and these lips have long been separated:
First Gentleman	Ay, madam;
Second Lord	I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
ABRAHAM	Quarrel sir! no, sir.
	Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
HAMLET	But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
	To you in satisfaction; but if not,
JULIET	Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
	What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
	And put upon him such a deal of man,
	Old fools are babes again; and must be used
ALBANY	Sir, by your patience,
Second Lord	You shall hear one anon.
	I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
Nurse	Even or odd, of all days in the year,
JULIET	Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
REGAN	Sister, you'll go with us?
MERCUTIO	A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
	Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
COUNTESS	Now, justice on the doers!
GONERIL	Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
	And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
GLOUCESTER	Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
	And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
	For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
	Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
DIANA	I found it not.
	And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
ACT IV
ROUSILLON	mother to Bertram. (COUNTESS:)
EDGAR	Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
	But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
	And not where I had aim'd them.
	Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
	Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
	tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
	Came post with post; and every one did bear
	A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable;
	Unto that element: but long it could not be
	That downward hath succeeded in his house
	Should be without regard: what's done is done.
	That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
	O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
	To see him every hour; to sit and draw
	Here stooping to your clemency,
	Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
	That names me traitor, villain-like he lies:
	And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
	They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
	This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
	Is the main motive of our preparations,
	me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
	you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability
REGAN	Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us;
Nurse	Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
	[To KENT and EDGAR]
	That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
DIANA	I must be patient:
HAMLET	As thou'rt a man,
	[Sennet sounded. Enter MACBETH, as king, LADY
	carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
	On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
PAROLLES	Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
EDGAR	Well pray you, father.
	Wherein we must have use of your advice:
	Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
	It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
	To pluck the common bosom on his side,
HELENA	Is this the way?
	Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth;
	Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
	friends for my wife's sake.
CAPULET	Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
	To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
	Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me,--
	And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
	Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
	the Florentine?
SCENE II	Another room in the castle.
	Saddle my horses; call my train together:
	That she fordid herself.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	As kill a king!
	great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
ROSS	The king hath happily received, Macbeth,
	For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
ROMEO	Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
	While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon.
	melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
	Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
	star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some
	But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
	To make distinction: provide this messenger:
MACBETH	How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
	Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
	As I remember, this should be the house.
	And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!
MACBETH	Both of you
ROSS	                  Wife, children, servants, all
	Unsafe the while, that we
	This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
	Stands on the hourly thought.
	And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
QUEEN GERTRUDE	But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
KING CLAUDIUS	Well, we shall sift him.
ACT III
PAROLLES	An thy mind stand to't, boy, steal away bravely.
	Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
	Their heads to their foundations; though the treasure
	Will presently appear;
	It shall as level to your judgment pierce
	By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
ROMEO	Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
	For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
REGAN	For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
	Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
	Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
	You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
PAROLLES	Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
	'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
	Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
MALCOLM	With this there grows
	must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
	Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
	Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
COUNTESS	         And to be a soldier?
	the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this
QUEEN GERTRUDE	One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
	inch narrow to an ell broad!
REYNALDO	I shall, my lord.
	And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
SCENE IV	A room in Capulet's house.
	If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
	Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
	For certain friends that are both his and mine,
	wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	And of his old experience the oily darling,
BERTRAM	Change it, change it;
	O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
	By this encompassment and drift of question
HAMLET	Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
CORNWALL	Edmund, farewell.
	the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
	Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
	That thou so many princes at a shot
SCENE V	Capulet's orchard.
	The injuries that they themselves procure
	[Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch]
HORATIO	Have after. To what issue will this come?
EDMUND	Spake you with him?
DIANA	You shall not need to fear me.
	'Thou unpossessing bastard! dost thou think,
	To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
BERTRAM	Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
KING CLAUDIUS	What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
	Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
PAROLLES	Your pleasure, sir?
	sent to find those persons whose names are here
	Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
	That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
MACBETH	Bring it after me.
HORATIO	                  Propose the oath, my lord.
Steward	I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
	That monthly changes in her circled orb,
	friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
	'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
	You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
	And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
	and boy, thirty years.
	What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
	I have full cause of weeping; but this heart
HAMLET	'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
	ancient amities; divisions in state, menaces and
PARIS	So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
	with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
	And thank us for your trouble.
	You we first seize on.
	So please you, let me now be left alone,
First Lord	I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
	KING LEAR
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
	will do no hurt; it will wear the surplice of
	matter. How does your ladyship like it?
Clown	Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
	Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
	I'll not endure him.
	for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the
	Must be of such unnatural degree,
ACT III
	And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
	how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
LADY CAPULET	[Within]         Ho, daughter! are you up?
	Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
HAMLET	Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
	Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
First Clown	'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
HAMLET	It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
	Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
KENT	Is this the promised end
FRIAR LAURENCE	My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
	young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises,
	This man shall set me packing:
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some
	In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
Ghost	Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
	In filial obligation for some term
	Began a fresh assault.
MERCUTIO	If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
	And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
	Strange images of death. As thick as hail
	At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
	That it was he in the times past which held you
	The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
	And more thirsts after.
	Expire before the flowers in their caps,
HORATIO	A piece of him.
PAROLLES	Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath
	face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
Third Witch	And I another.
	of our own behavior,--we make guilty of our
HAMLET	Do not believe it.
JULIET	Madam, I am here.
	And, like a man to double business bound,
	As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
	And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
	Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
PAROLLES	By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
	and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
	So all men do, from hence to the palace gate
	yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
	From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
	My being here it is that holds thee hence:
	When brewers mar their malt with water;
ROMEO	Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
	To the forfended place?
BERTRAM	[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
	Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
	Shall be applied: for us we will resign,
	Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
	And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
	travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the
ROMEO	I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
	Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
CORDELIA	How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
	Yet I will try the last. Before my body
JULIET	Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
GLOUCESTER	No, truly.
	snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
First Servant	Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
GREGORY	Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
	The changeling never known. Now, the next day
	Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
	[Exit]
	The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
	Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
	Till time and I think meet.
	It is my will, the which if thou respect,
	And at that time he got his wife with child:
HORATIO	Be ruled; you shall not go.
	Be to content your lord, who hath received you
	With vilest torture let my life be ended.
	And hardly shall I carry out my side,
	the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
	Propinquity and property of blood,
	certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation;
LAFEU	You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion!
	[Exeunt]
HAMLET	[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
	then am I the prisoner, and his bed my goal; from
	would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
	Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
	A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet
	From the first corse till he that died to-day,
	[To the Fool]
	And with no less nobility of love
	The dust that did offend it.
	Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
	If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
KENT	                  Hail to thee, noble master!
		       Is your lady come?
GLOUCESTER	I am sorry for thee, friend; 'tis the duke's pleasure,
ACT V
	But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
	Your charms and every thing beside.
	Captain, and Soldiers]
	That you are well acquainted with yourself,
	[Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,
	bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off]
	'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better;
	Shall have more vices than it had before,
Captain	God be wi' you, sir.
Fool:
	After well enter'd soldiers, to return
	thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
	I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
MACDUFF	What three things does drink especially provoke?
	Our chimneys were blown down; and, as they say,
	Came he not home to-night?
PRINCE	Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
	Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
	Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
LAFEU	[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
	Thus do go about, about:
	Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;
	Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
	[Enter HAMLET]
GLOUCESTER	Where is the villain, Edmund?
First Soldier	His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
	Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
	To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
BERTRAM	I heard not of it before.
	What further woe conspires against mine age?
	Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
	disposition to the charge of a star! My
Lords	What, my good lord?
PARIS	God shield I should disturb devotion!
	New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
	Now spurs the lated traveller apace
COUNTESS	Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
Servant	                  Madam, I will.
	With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
	And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
	And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
Nurse	O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
	Within the belt of rule.
	armed with swords and bucklers]
	Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive,
	And in this state she gallops night by night
LAFEU	Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
	marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
	my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
	Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
	Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
	time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
	now. Your date is better in your pie and your
	what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be
	Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
	To be my child Cordelia.
First Lord	How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
	It hath no end.
Second Clown	Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
	His fault concludes but what the law should end,
KING	Are thou so confident? within what space
	I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
	But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
First Soldier	What is his reputation with the duke?
	That this distemper'd messenger of wet,
CORNWALL	Bind fast his corky arms.
	Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
KENT	With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
	me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
	My master calls me, I must not say no.
OSWALD	My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:
	The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
	This to your majesty; this to the queen.
	[Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA,
	For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
KING LEAR	He would not!
	To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
	Mark the encounter: if he love her not
	given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
	So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
	And in the taste confounds the appetite:
	Doubt truth to be a liar;
KING CLAUDIUS	Ay, Hamlet.
	readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
	Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
	yield them,
	about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
ROSS	Alas, the day!
	The better to beguile. This is for all:
MERCUTIO	Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
	I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
KING CLAUDIUS	Part them; they are incensed.
Fool	Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
JULIET	O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
	to dinner, thither.
	major; so that it follows, I am rough and
	I can scarce speak to thee; thou'lt not believe
	Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
CAPULET	|
	the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
	To the dark house and the detested wife.
	Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
	I have no joy of this contract to-night:
MACBETH	So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
	KING LEAR
First Citizen	Up, sir, go with me;
REGAN	But are my brother's powers set forth?
	peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
	face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
	Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Second Murderer	I am one, my liege,
LADY MACBETH	Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
	Let me question more in particular: what have you,
	by't: out with 't! within ten year it will make
	Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
	graves. Find out this villain, Edmund; it shall
ROMEO	                  I take thee at thy word:
	For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
BANQUO	So I lose none
	Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
	That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
	Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
	Here in this city visiting the sick,
	for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
	Wherein I thee endow'd.
MACBETH	Till then, enough. Come, friends.
	Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine:
LADY MACBETH	We fail!
	[Exeunt JULIET and Nurse]
	Hast practised on man's life: close pent-up guilts,
HAMLET	Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
First Clown	For none, neither.
	A face without a heart?
ACT II
	or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
	To give the world assurance of a man:
Player Queen	   So many journeys may the sun and moon
	I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
	wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
	for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
SCENE IV	Forres. The palace.
	embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes
SCENE II	Before ALBANY's palace.
	To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
	May be the amorous count solicits her
	But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
	As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
	May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
	If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
	As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
REYNALDO	But, my good lord,--
SCENE II	Another part of the heath. Storm still.
	Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
SCENE II	A room of state in the castle.
	Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Second Lord	What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel
	Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
	And aid me with that store of power you have
	MACBETH
	For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
	A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
	Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
	The associates tend, and every thing is bent
JULIET	The tears have got small victory by that;
	To give it due content.
	Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
CAITHNESS	Well, march we on,
	Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.
	Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
	Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
	And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
	to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
	Shall raise such artificial sprites
	Call, good Mercutio.
	must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
	To wage against the enmity o' the air;
	Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
Fool	And thou hadst been set i' the stocks for that
	Boy, son to Macduff. (Son:)
	disobedience. He that hangs himself is a virgin:
	[Exit, guarded]
	Brings in the champion Honour on my part,
	The devil to his fellow and delight
HAMLET	He was a man, take him for all in all,
	More relative than this: the play 's the thing
Second Lord	Is it possible he should know what he is, and be
All	Gentlemen,--
CORNWALL	Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
	Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
	Some that will thank you, making just report
	O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
	Will not confess he owes the malady
	Upon this call o' the trumpet.
	rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
LORD POLONIUS	'Tis most true:
LADY CAPULET	Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
	Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
HELENA	What two things?
	ROMEO AND JULIET
KING LEAR	I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
	[Exit]
	Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
HAMLET	Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
ROMEO	If my heart's dear love--
	And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
	these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
	his dagger.
EDGAR	This is above all strangeness.
ACT I
KING LEAR	Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
	And dizzy 'tis, to cast one's eyes so low!
	Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
ROMEO	O single-soled jest, solely singular for the
	received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be
	How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
LAERTES	No.
	[Scattering flowers]
	So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
	Shall see their children kind.
	love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
	Of what hath moved you.
	To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
	see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
	yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
	MACBETH
	Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
	Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
KING	Know'st thou not, Bertram,
CORNWALL	Bind him, I say.
First Musician	No.
	Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
	Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
	He that helps him take all my outward worth.
	Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
	That the great figure of a council frames
	To have well-armed friends.
LAFEU	Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
OSRIC	                  Look to the queen there, ho!
	To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
BERTRAM	I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
ANGUS	Now does he feel
CAPULET	My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
	In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
First Witch	                  Speak.
	mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
	revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
	Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
	Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
HAMLET	Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
	Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
Fool	Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
BENVOLIO	An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
	Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
	That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
	'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
	[Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool]
	My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
LAERTES	O, treble woe
	Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
	My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
	your old virginity, is like one of our French
Nurse	Ay, ay, the cords.
	in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film
BENVOLIO	O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
HELENA	Yet, I pray you:
	Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the dead
	praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
MACBETH	What man dare, I dare:
	And leave thee in the storm,
	Instantly know; and of that letter too:
	[Exit]
Nurse	[Within]  Madam!
PAROLLES	Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
	By heaven, it is as proper to our age
PAROLLES	Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
Doctor	Ay, my good lord; your royal preparation
	Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
BURGUNDY	I know no answer.
	She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
	Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
	The harvest is your own.
	To take the basest and most poorest shape
	ear-kissing arguments?
	O, here they come.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	What shall I do?
	for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but
	[Enter SEYTON]
MENTEITH	Who then shall blame
	Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
	Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
	[Exit POLONIUS]
	Thy safety being the motive.
	bones, their bones!
	For where there is advantage to be given,
REYNALDO	                  My lord, I did intend it.
	knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had
Third Murderer	Macbeth.
	And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
	Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
		    What can man's wisdom
	Although the last, not least; to whose young love
	Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
	The confirmation of my promised gift,
ROMEO	Commend me to thy lady.
	Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
	|
	You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
	hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
	[Enter a Servant]
	I think you are happy in this second match,
	Who comes here?
	I could not answer in that course of honour
LADY MACDUFF	Sirrah, your father's dead;
	Thou know'st already.
MACBETH	                  When?
	When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
Clown	I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
LAERTES	Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
	But do not go with it.
Gentleman	O, here he is: lay hand upon him. Sir,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	I will not speak with her.
MERCUTIO	Come, sir, your passado.
	Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
	stuff his suspicion more fully.--I will persevere in
	And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
	deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Ay me, what act,
EDMUND	In wisdom I should ask thy name;
	You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
	Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
	'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
	But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confined, bound in
	Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
	Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
LENNOX	My young remembrance cannot parallel
	How now! where's the king?
	know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but
	(Fourth Lord:)
	The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear;
	[Enter ROMEO]
	He that has and a little tiny wit--
KING LEAR	Let the great gods,
	[To CORDELIA]
HAMLET	Then came each actor on his ass,--
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Came this from Hamlet to her?
	slave, strike.
BERNARDO	|
	[Exit Ghost]
	Fiery? what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
	A couch for luxury and damned incest.
	Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
	great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
QUEEN GERTRUDE	There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
ROMEO	One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
	When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
	[Exeunt]
	That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
GONERIL	Do you mark that, my lord?
	[To PAROLLES]
KING LEAR	This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so,
	and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
	Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
	Young Bertram.
	Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
	A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
	A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
	excessive grief the enemy to the living.
	A prosperous gentleman; and to be king
HAMLET	In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	Or but a sickly part of one true sense
	Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
First Player	Ay, my lord.
	the rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,
	His heart-struck injuries.
	In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
	Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
	Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
KING LEAR	Who wouldst thou serve?
	But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
	[Enter CAPULET, LADY  CAPULET, Nurse, and two
MALCOLM	It is myself I mean: in whom I know
	My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
First Witch	Round about the cauldron go;
	You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
	Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
ACT IV
	And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
	The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Servant	I know not, sir.
	[Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND]
First Musician	Why 'Heart's ease?'
	From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
LAERTES	Think it no more;
	Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
ROMEO	Meaning, to court'sy.
	Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
	He hath been in unusual pleasure, and
	The head is not more native to the heart,
COUNTESS	His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
	Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
Second Gentleman	Ay, madam.
	The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
	I can create the rest: virtue and she
	To be a comrade with the wolf and owl,--
First Clown	Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
KING CLAUDIUS	Why, now you speak
	'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
	And keep you in the rear of your affection,
Nurse	Is it good den?
	but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
Nurse	Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
	Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
		 Now, where's your master'?
	done cannot be undone.--To bed, to bed, to bed!
	That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
	The only son of your great enemy.
	That happiness and prime can happy call:
	been truth, sir.
HAMLET	Nay, I know not.
ROMEO	Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
	A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
GUILDENSTERN	'Faith, her privates we.
	In such a business give me leave to use
	And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
HAMLET	                  Nay, do not think I flatter;
	[Exit Servant]
	To equal my great fortune.
PRINCE	Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
	writ, and can never find what names the writing
	It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
	Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in,
	What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
LADY CAPULET	Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
REGAN	But have you never found my brother's way
	Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
	[Enter POLONIUS]
	weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
	Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
	And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
	My chastity's the jewel of our house,
	When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
	Was pitied of Macbeth: marry, he was dead:
	Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
	Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
	Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
	My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
	Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
LAFEU	Nay, I'll fit you,
	You Capulet; shall go along with me:
	a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
	Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flown
BENVOLIO	What, art thou hurt?
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
	Even so it was with me when I was young:
	Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
ACT V
	[Enter HELENA]
HAMLET	How is it with you, lady?
	For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
	protest unto thee--
BERTRAM	Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell.
	To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
	That they do know my son, come you more nearer
	myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
	you could go backward.
	A Captain employed by Edmund. (Captain:)
	We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
	[Enter another Gentleman]
	Come place him here by me,
First Witch	Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
	way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
HAMLET	Then I would you were so honest a man.
	with letters, and divers Attendants]
	Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
	[Exeunt]
ROMEO	Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
HAMLET	What's his weapon?
	Till seven at night: to make society
	[Exeunt]
	Against my coming in: thou better know'st
	crab. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i'
	for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
PAROLLES	Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
	[Exeunt]
	And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
	Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
	The life o' the building!
	Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
First Witch	I come, Graymalkin!
	be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
Doctor	You see, her eyes are open.
	nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
MALCOLM	Let every soldier hew him down a bough
HAMLET	Yours, yours.
	And is not like the sire: honours thrive,
	This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
	And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
	Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
LAFEU	an old lord.
	And bawds and whores do churches build;
	To the warm sun!
	Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
	Best half of our affair.
	So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
	O, by this count I shall be much in years
	Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
	But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
	[Wounds his arm]
	And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
CORDELIA	Be better suited:
	Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
	[Descends]
	breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
HORATIO	Let them come in.
DUKE OF FLORENCE	(DUKE:)
	Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
	O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
	Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
	wish might be found in the calendar of my past
	Her delicate cheek: it seem'd she was a queen
	Move them no more by crossing their high will.
GUILDENSTERN	|
Doctor:
	it is a prison.
	Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing,
	finds it so.
	To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
	Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
	And question this most bloody piece of work,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
ACT II
	[Knocking within]
	That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
GLOUCESTER	Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
	[Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch]
	[Exit]
ALL	The weird sisters, hand in hand,
	Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
	[The Fool runs out from the hovel]
OPHELIA	[Sings]
GONERIL	This is practise, Gloucester:
EDGAR	As I stood here below, methought his eyes
	That guilty creatures sitting at a play
LAERTES	It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
	To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
MARCELLUS	Nay, let's follow him.
Nurse	His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
	that I should quickly have a new father.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
	[Exeunt Murderers]
ACT V
	Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
	And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
	With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
	All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest,
First Murderer	Let it come down.
First Clown	For no man, sir.
	Upon whose property and most dear life
	this, give these fellows some means to the king:
HORATIO	I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
	Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
ROMEO	But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
	This hideous rashness: answer my life my judgment,
	If you should tender your supposed aid,
LAERTES	I will do't:
	But kept a reservation to be follow'd
	Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
	And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;
	What is the matter?
	Not pay thee.
First Lord	He's very near the truth in this.
Clown	No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
	Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
	To lay our service freely at your feet,
	To meet her new-beloved any where:
	[Enter Sailors]
	Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
	None but for some and yet all different.
	that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
	Hath had no notice of these accidents;
	Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
First Clown	Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
	Far off, methinks, I hear the beaten drum:
	inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
	Be-monster not thy feature. Were't my fitness
	How near's the other army?
	Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
JULIET	By and by, I come:--
	Her army is moved on.
LAFEU	You have it from his own deliverance.
	surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he
Danes	[Within]                Let her come in.
	And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
	there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
	How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
First Clown	Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
	All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
CORNWALL	Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
	That fled the snares of watchful tyranny;
Gentleman	Save yourself, my lord:
	And shall continue our graces towards him.
	Believe so much in him, that he is young
	Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
Son	Then the liars and swearers are fools,
	But Romeo may not; he is banished:
	You will return and sojourn with my sister,
	Fly, brother. Torches, torches! So, farewell.
	He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
	[Exeunt]
CORNWALL	Fetch forth the stocks!
	Of his profession, that his good receipt
	will think of thee at court.
	Something in my behalf.
	And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
	And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
	Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
HAMLET	Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
	I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
	The violence of either grief or joy
	This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
	a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
	Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
	That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
	will give me occasion.
	This unprevailing woe, and think of us
	[To GONERIL]
	office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by
	[Sings]
BERTRAM	No matter: his heels have deserved it, in usurping
	that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature: for any
BERTRAM	Come, come, no more of that.
	Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
	And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
	But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
	A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
	[Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
