	This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
PAROLLES	So I say.
	What comfort to this great decay may come
	For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
	He swung about his head and cut the winds,
	Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
KING	Here is my hand; the premises observed,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
	No less to have done so, let me enfold thee
	[Aside]
EDMUND	This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
MALCOLM	Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
	Afore me! it is so very very late,
MACBETH	And thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
	With any branch or image of thy state;
	I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
	that had received so much shame, you might begin an
	And makes each petty artery in this body
	And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
	Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
ALBANY	Sir, by your patience,
	into seeming knowledge, when we should submit
	KING LEAR
CAPULET	He shall be endured:
	You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
KENT	Yes.
MACBETH	Take thy face hence.
	Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
	for the most part are capable of nothing but
LADY  CAPULET	We shall be short in our provision:
	comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
	his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
	Stands not within the prospect of belief,
	And passion in the gods.'
	By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
HAMLET	One.
DIANA	Monsieur Parolles.
	[Exeunt]
	It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
	Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
	To this unworthy husband of his wife;
MACDUFF	How does my wife?
PARIS	Monday, my lord,
MERCUTIO	But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
	Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
	To press before thy father to a grave?
	be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
	And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
	My lady charged my duty in this business.
	It is in us to plant thine honour where
BOTH	                  We'll take your offer kindly.
JULIET	Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
	Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
	and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
LAERTES	Let this be so;
	A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
	brother,	EDGAR.'
	justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
Second Lord	Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
	Nurse! What should she do here?
LAFEU	Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead,
	You know my father left me some prescriptions
	this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
TYBALT	It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
	[Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window]
MACDUFF	Is thy master stirring?
KING	What's he comes here?
PAROLLES	He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister: for
	[Exeunt Attendants]
EDGAR	What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
	Your most dear daughter--
	in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
	Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
First Lord	That was not to be blamed in the command of the
	That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
	He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
	And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
	Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
KENT	The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
	Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
	[Retiring with HORATIO]
	To him our absolute power:
SCENE III	A room in the castle.
HAMLET	Very well, my lord
KENT	If fortune brag of two she loved and hated,
REGAN	The messengers from our sister and the king.
	Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
	If you come slack of former services,
	But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
	Good my lord, will you see the players well
	Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
MERCUTIO	Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
	Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
	salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
	Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
	So clear in his great office, that his virtues
HAMLET	In happy time.
	A most miraculous work in this good king;
	Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
	The knowledge of themselves.
	ask you a question. Man is enemy to virginity; how
	Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
Gentleman	They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
First Watchman	A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
Player Queen	Sleep rock thy brain,
	And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
GLOUCESTER	You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
	And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
	We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
PAROLLES	Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
	trust my judgment in any thing.
Doctor	You see, her eyes are open.
	Hath had no notice of these accidents;
	Your favours nor your hate.
	[Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA]
	That thou consent to marry us to-day.
	The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O me, what hast thou done?
	And hither shall he come: and he and I
	I'll visit you.
	Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
	That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
	And dizzy 'tis, to cast one's eyes so low!
FRIAR LAURENCE	A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
	Murderers, following her]
	If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
HAMLET	Nay, but to live
	Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
	But yet I call you servile ministers,
LADY MACBETH	A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
	Prithee, allow the wind.
Son	Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
BENVOLIO	Of love?
CORDELIA	Nothing.
	You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
	to the wall.
	truepenny?
	On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
	I could not but by her. The other motive,
ROSS	That now
BENVOLIO	See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
SCENE III	The same.
	I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
	That seems to speak things strange.
	That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
GONERIL	No more; the text is foolish.
	| My lord, we will not.
HELENA	I especially think, under Mars.
	The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
	In filial obligation for some term
	Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
	[Dies]
HAMLET	The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
KENT	                  Good my lord, enter here.
GUILDENSTERN	|
KING LEAR	The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
	To keep those many many bodies safe
	That makes calamity of so long life;
	not to be recovered.
	During the life of this old majesty,
	Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Son	And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
	He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
LADY MACBETH	Woe, alas!
	Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
	Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
	But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
	Myself an enemy to all other joys,
	Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
	Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
REGAN	Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
	[Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS]
	And art thou come to this?
	they say barnes are blessings.
	how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
MACBETH	Thou losest labour:
	Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
GONERIL	This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
HAMLET	It will be short: the interim is mine;
	O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
	And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;
	KING LEAR
	Though his bark cannot be lost,
	Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
	Given to the common enemy of man,
	Might have the freer course.
	To make distinction: provide this messenger:
	In seeking to augment it, but still keep
	Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Second Clown	Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
	With his prepared sword, he charges home
	Is't far you ride?
	Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
	Must be provided for: and you shall put
	Where yet she never was.
	Is thine and my poor country's to command:
	breed. If it shall please you to make me a
	Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
CORNWALL	Peace, sirrah!
	They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
	What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
	and boy, thirty years.
OPHELIA	You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
	Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
	In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
	Two Clowns, grave-diggers.
	Were very pregnant and potential spurs
Apothecary	Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
	of the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
	As living here and you no use of him.
	religion, their heads are both one; they may jowl
	But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
BANQUO	Very gladly.
EDGAR	[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
	Your son and daughter.
Player Queen	   Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
MACBETH	Sweet remembrancer!
	And, look you, here's your letter; this it says:
KING LEAR	No seconds? all myself?
	And this same needy man must sell it me.
	How you were borne in hand, how cross'd,
GLOUCESTER	Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
	And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
	If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
	Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
	the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
	Meet me i' the morning: thither he
	Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
	spacious in the possession of dirt.
	Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
	One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
	goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
	If I had given you this at over-night,
	That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
	How stands your disposition to be married?
	To the unsatisfied.
	Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
	Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
	[Exeunt]
LORD POLONIUS	Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
	An older and a better soldier none
	To rid her from this second marriage,
	But I do wash his name out of my blood,
	That we present us to him.
	In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
Fool	That lord that counsell'd thee
	Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
	We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
	But, since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
	till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
MACBETH	[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
HORATIO	Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
BENVOLIO	Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
	Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
	knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
	Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
First Soldier	[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
	Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
ALBANY	Our very loving sister, well be-met.
	And what obscured in this fair volume lies
OPHELIA	Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
	And doth it give me such a sight as this?
	[Enter CAPULET]
	I recovered it.
SCENE IV	Outside Macbeth's castle.
	were more than they can commend.
	'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own
LENNOX	Good morrow, noble sir.
	A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
	Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
FRIAR LAURENCE	O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
KING LEAR	Dost thou call me fool, boy?
	so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
	you.
	The which he loved passing well.'
	Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
	|
	Well may it sort that this portentous figure
	and others]
	It is most retrograde to our desire:
	Now falls on Priam.
GONERIL	Pluck out his eyes.
	REGAN, and CORDELIA]
	That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
	must produce for an interpreter.
	That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
BERTRAM	[Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the king?
	Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
CORNWALL	I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
HAMLET	Saw? who?
MACBETH	[Aside]  Glamis, and thane of Cawdor!
	(Third Murderer:)
DIANA	You shall not need to fear me.
	I come to cope.
	With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
COUNTESS	I play the noble housewife with the time
	[Enter a Messenger]
	which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and,
	That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
FRIAR LAURENCE	That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
	Thy knotted and combined locks to part
MACBETH	[Aside]	Two truths are told,
	Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
KENT	No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
LORD POLONIUS	Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
	be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
KING	How is that?
ALBANY	Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame,
Ghost	Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
LAERTES	What ceremony else?
	Could to no issue of true honour bring.
	with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yond
	Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
MARIANA	I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
KING	What say'st thou to her?
HAMLET	Do the boys carry it away?
LADY MACDUFF	Ay, that he was.
	That I require a clearness: and with him--
Second Witch	Show me, show me.
	That we may call it early by and by.
	And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
	Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
	For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
	slave, strike.
	Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
	rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
Doctor	Be by, good madam, when we do awake him;
	By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
	Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
	And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,
	Truly deliver.
	This realm dismantled was
HAMLET	Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
	Speak less than thou knowest,
	courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
MACDUFF	I know this is a joyful trouble to you;
	That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
	It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
	butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
	And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
	[Knocking within]
ACT I
	Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
	O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
	That made you break this enterprise to me?
	But make amends now: get you gone,
	neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
KING LEAR	To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
	And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
	|             My lord, from head to foot.
	I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
	And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
	Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
	And apprehend thee for a felon here.
SAMPSON	Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
ROMEO	Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
	County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
	verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
HELENA	                  Good madam, pardon me!
	Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
	What like, offensive.
	Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
	Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
	[Comes forward]
	A Herald.
	I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
	As one near death to those that wish him live:
Fool	Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the
	Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Nurse	Faith, here it is.
PAROLLES	Away! thou'rt a knave.
	Protest their first of manhood.
	And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
OPHELIA	There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Hamlet, Hamlet!
	For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
SCENE II	A hall in the castle.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	This is mere madness:
	Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
	Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
	And keep you in the rear of your affection,
	food for thee.
	It is the bloody business which informs
	Couch we awhile, and mark.
ROSENCRANTZ	None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
	No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
	For a dark hour or twain.
	Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
Nurse	Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
	Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
	Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
	know than comes from her demand out of the letter.
Third Witch	A drum, a drum!
COUNTESS	In what case?
Nurse	O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
SCENE II	Capulet's orchard.
ABRAHAM	No better.
	You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
LORD POLONIUS	What a treasure had he, my lord?
	knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
COUNTESS	You have discharged this honestly; keep it to
	[Enter OSWALD]
ROSS	Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
BENVOLIO	In love?
PARIS	Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
LORD POLONIUS	                  God be wi' you; fare you well.
	Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
ALL	                  Come, high or low;
	[Laying his hand on his sword]
MACDUFF	Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,
	Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
	Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
Clown	Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
MERCUTIO	Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
	For stony limits cannot hold love out,
	Is often laudable, to do good sometime
KENT	Royal Lear,
	So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
	On the opposer.
	Had he the motive and the cue for passion
PETER	No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
	Open, locks,
	Lay comforts to your bosom; and bestow
	Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
	[Exeunt]
GLOUCESTER	Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
BANQUO	Thanks, sir: the like to you!
	It lifted up its head and did address
	into amazement and admiration.
	Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,--
DUNCAN	Great happiness!
	Now, fellow, fare thee well.
	between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
	Those tender limbs of thine to the event
	away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
	When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
LADY MACBETH	My royal lord,
CORNWALL	This is a fellow of the self-same colour
	Dost thou not laugh?
	For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
	And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
	Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
FRIAR LAURENCE	The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
	Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
	But never doubt I love.
		 Why, so: being gone,
	[LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they
	She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
CURAN	Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad;
	[Exeunt]
	Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
	But he's an arrant knave.
	Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
	further use to be made than alone the recovery of
EDGAR	Do you busy yourself about that?
	The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
HORATIO	And then it started like a guilty thing
	But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
	Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
	Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
	The triumph of his pledge.
First Soldier	No, sir, I warrant you.
	[Looking on his hands]
	Where is my lord of Gloucester?
	Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
	That must destroy thee.
	A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
	The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
	To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
EDGAR	                  Let's exchange charity.
	Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
	I'll lead you to some biding.
	How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
	Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
SIWARD	The time approaches
	you.
SCENE VI	Friar Laurence's cell.
	We make thee lady: to thine and Albany's issue
PAROLLES	I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
ACT I
KING LEAR	Who wouldst thou serve?
	Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
BALTHASAR	Full half an hour.
	And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
	touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
	All flaxen was his poll:
	thee further.
	[Exit]
KING CLAUDIUS	I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
BERTRAM	But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
HAMLET	A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
	For these domestic and particular broils
	Yet never know how that desert should be.
HAMLET	                  Why, what should be the fear?
	Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
	Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
JULIET	I would not for the world they saw thee here.
	fifty each: so that the muster-file, rotten and
	almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so
	Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
	evidence; therefore stand aside.
MACBETH	Fail not our feast.
Player Queen	   So many journeys may the sun and moon
KING LEAR	Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
	Exempted be from me the arrogance
ROMEO	Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
	[Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN,
	This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
	To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
CORNWALL	If you see vengeance,--
	Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
	might it not?
	Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
First Lord	We shall, noble captain.
	Than to entreaty.
	given, she's very well and wants nothing i', the
	it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
	him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him,
	No traveller returns, puzzles the will
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Of dear import, and the neglecting it
	sleeves? do other servants so? Thou wert best set
Doctor	Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
ALL	Seek to know no more.
	Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
First Gentleman	'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, which his
	Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
	As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
HORATIO	[Within]	Heaven secure him!
EDMUND	I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
	Do thou but call my resolution wise,
	Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
KENT	Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
	Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
First Lord	How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
Clown	Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
MACDUFF	What three things does drink especially provoke?
	moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
	sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing the
	performer, I would have that drum or another, or
	now she sings in heaven.
PAROLLES	I know not what the success will be, my lord; but
HORATIO	Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
	Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
	Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
	And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
	Shall sun that morrow see!
	The harvest is your own.
	As calling home our exiled friends abroad
FRIAR LAURENCE	Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
	You must not take for fire. From this time
	If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
	And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
	Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
HAMLET	I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
	Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
	[Drum and Colours]
	Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
	Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
	my life, except my life.
	With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
	Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
PAROLLES	In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there,
	[To a Gentleman, who goes out]
	indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
	That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
	Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
	Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
	Bringing the murderous coward to the stake;
	Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
	Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back;
	And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
BENVOLIO	Romeo will answer it.
	And guardian of their bones.
	See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
	many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
	To-morrow will I send.
HAMLET	Up from my cabin,
	His son is thirty.
	And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
	To sing a requiem and such rest to her
CORDELIA	'Tis known before; our preparation stands
	[Exeunt]
	No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
	There would have been a time for such a word.
	And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
	heritage: and I think I shall never have the
	Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
	Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
	And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
	[Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch]
	Shalt with him hence.
	As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
HAMLET	Never to speak of this that you have seen,
	As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
	Safe toward your love and honour.
	Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
	The lady stirs.
	We are coming thither: gracious England hath
	To the dark house and the detested wife.
	Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
	[Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR]
	What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
	A sleeping potion; which so took effect
MACBETH	                  Speak, if you can: what are you?
	As is the night before some festival
	Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
KING CLAUDIUS	Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
	Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
	some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
	Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
	Remember what I tell you.
	You saw one here in court could witness it.
	Like syllable of dolour.
EDMUND	Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended
	How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
	replication should be made by the son of a king?
HAMLET	My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
HORATIO	In what particular thought to work I know not;
	Swear by my sword.
	That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
	treachers, by spherical predominance; drunkards,
	That was not born of woman? Such a one
	Will I set up my everlasting rest,
	[They play]
	Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
	relations to both houses; Maskers,
	I will keep still with my philosopher.
Third Witch	Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
	it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well
BERTRAM	What would you have?
Gentleman	Who is conductor of his people?
	very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
	Though more to know could not be more to trust,
DIANA	Let death and honesty
	you: of her I am to speak.
	Thy will by my performance shall be served:
	(First Servant:)
	Command upon me; to the which my duties
	no legacy is so rich as honesty.
	(Fourth Lord:)
GUILDENSTERN	Believe me, I cannot.
HAMLET	I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
	Thee they may hurt.
	[They fight; TYBALT falls]
	Have theirs, themselves and what is theirs, in compt,
	The traces of the smallest spider's web,
	O, methought, there was nothing meet.
	Come hissing in upon 'em,--
	Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
	Are less than horrible imaginings:
First Soldier	Bosko chimurcho.
	Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
	More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
HORATIO	Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
SCENE II	Before ALBANY's palace.
CAPULET	Young Romeo is it?
	Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady
MACDUFF	Look to the lady.
MALCOLM	Be comforted:
	nothing, nuncle?
	Since that the truest issue of thy throne
	Which keeps me pale! Light thickens; and the crow
	though there were no further danger known but the
	Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
	The power of man, for none of woman born
	eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
KENT	No, sir; but you have that in your countenance
	pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the
HAMLET	                  In my mind's eye, Horatio.
	To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
	Allow obedience, if yourselves are old,
	Whether they live or die.
	Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
	That death and nature do contend about them,
	When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
Clown	Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
		Give him the cup.
	[Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him]
	And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
	[Exeunt]
	And thou art twice her love.
DIANA	Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
	Each part, deprived of supple government,
	At one fell swoop?
MACBETH	Whence is that knocking?
	MACBETH
	When down her weedy trophies and herself
	That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
	Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
	My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
	child. We have seen the best of our time:
	So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
EDGAR	I would not take this from report; it is,
	melancholy man.
LORD POLONIUS	Fare you well, my lord.
	What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
DUNCAN	Dismay'd not this
	I have this present evening from my sister
	Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
First Player	'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
First Gentleman	Save you, good madam.
	Go, go, provide.
	To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
SCENE II	A hall in the castle.
KING LEAR	Then there's life in't. Nay, if you get it, you
	a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
	All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
	Thy sheep shall take no harm.
	Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
	'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
	With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
	Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
	All unity on earth.
	So far from cheer and from your former state,
	Thy hope ends here!
	They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
OPHELIA	O, help him, you sweet heavens!
	Of differences, which I least thought it fit
REYNALDO	But, my good lord,--
	[Drum within]
	palaces, treason; and the bond cracked 'twixt son
	That wants the means to lead it.
	[Knocking within]
	Will you be ruled by me?
	Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
	Like monsters of the deep.
	great a prince as you are.
ROMEO	O, teach me how I should forget to think.
LAERTES	Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
LENNOX	What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
	With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
MARCELLUS	And liegemen to the Dane.
	Else one self mate and mate could not beget
	As he was coming from this churchyard side.
MERCUTIO	Any man that can write may answer a letter.
SCENE II	A room in the castle.
KING LEAR	To have a thousand with red burning spits
	To muddy death.
	Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
	Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Sergeant	Yes;
	Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
	It may be thought we held him carelessly,
	Your marriage comes by destiny,
PAROLLES	So I say.
	To bring forth this discovery. Seek these suitors:
	By your eyes' anguish.
	And pour'd them down before him.
	A Captain.
	Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
KING	Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
Doctor	Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
	Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
ROSS	I'll see it done.
	That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
CORDELIA	Sir, do you know me?
	You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
MACDUFF	Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
	Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
JULIET	What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
	[Throwing down a glove]
LAFEU	To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
	[Enter JULIET]
	It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
	An understanding simple and unschool'd:
	Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
	Which warp'd the line of every other favour;
HELENA	But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
	To give it from me.
	Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
	Sits in a foggy cloud, and stays for me.
	Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
	Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
	My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
	To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
	Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
	A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
	It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
	Most free in his reply.
	Coming from us.
HAMLET	Safely stowed.
	To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
	Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
	And aid me with that store of power you have
	With an importing visage; and she told me,
	Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
	[Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,
KING	Take her away; I do not like her now;
	Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
	We are undone, lady, we are undone!
KING CLAUDIUS	'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
DIANA	By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
Nurse	O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
	One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
	The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
	|
	Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
	An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
