	Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
	And her troth plight,
	Is it the king?
	This but begins the woe, others must end.
LAFEU	Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
	Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
	Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
	What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
	Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
HELENA	                  Good madam, pardon me!
ACT V
LADY CAPULET	That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
ALBANY	If there be more, more woeful, hold it in;
	So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
	That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
	[Exit HORATIO]
	[Dies. FLEANCE escapes]
	thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
	The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
	Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
	Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
MERCUTIO	Right.
	The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
	breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
HELENA	Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
	that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
	Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
	trumpet before him]
	When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
ACT II
HAMLET	And smelt so? pah!
	We put fresh garments on him.
	cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee: a
SIWARD	We learn no other but the confident tyrant
	These dispositions, that of late transform you
	That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
	Can woman me unto't: where is my son, I pray you?
	Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
MARIANA	|
JULIET	You kiss by the book.
KING CLAUDIUS	O, for two special reasons;
	[Exeunt severally]
	Worthy the note.
	Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
	Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him,
	Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
	The obsequies that I for thee will keep
SCENE II	Another room in the castle.
	be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
	The same upon your finger.
	Be you and I behind an arras then;
Nurse	What's this? what's this?
	Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
	Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
	So shall you share all that he doth possess,
	And, to deal plainly,
GLOUCESTER	I serve you, madam:
GUILDENSTERN	|
	[Enter POLONIUS]
KING OF FRANCE	Bid farewell to your sisters.
	Three Witches.
	Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
Nurse	God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
	From what you rightly are.
	And fearfully did menace me with death,
	To die before you please!
	One of the greatest in the Christian world
	protest unto thee--
	Who hath for four or five removes come short
	Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
GLOUCESTER	Think you so?
ACT I
	Ere I again behold my Romeo!
	Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
	Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
Second Lord	Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
	We are reconciled, and the first view shall kill
MALCOLM	What's the newest grief?
	And urge her to a present answer back:
LADY CAPULET	Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
	They could not, would not do 't; 'tis worse than murder,
MACBETH	Prithee, peace:
Fool	Not i' the stocks, fool.
	But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
Nurse	An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him
	[Giving KENT money]
	Like rats, oft bite the holy cords a-twain
HAMLET	I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
	Profit again should hardly draw me here.
	laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
	fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
PAROLLES	Bravely, coragio!
	I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
	As happy prologues to the swelling act
HAMLET	Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
	And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
	As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
	As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
First Lord	'Tis our hope, sir,
	She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
