	I do remember well where I should be,
	One step I have advanced thee; if thou dost
	[Knocking within]
	That's a shealed peascod.
	write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
	Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
MACDUFF	Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
	it provokes the desire, but it takes
LORD POLONIUS	He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
LORD POLONIUS	I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
	Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
SAMPSON	Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
First Player	What speech, my lord?
	Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia:
	Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
SCENE III	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
	either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
	His wits begin to unsettle.
	May justly diet me. I pray you yet;
	charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
	In thee there is not half an hour of life;
	[Enter ALBANY]
	Many for many virtues excellent,
	Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
	Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Soldiers	It shall be done.
Second Capulet	                  By'r lady, thirty years.
	[Re-enter Ghost]
	Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
	And what will you do now? How will you live?
	For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
	But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
	Which craves the instant use.
	[Hautboys]
Second Lord	Hardly serve.
	the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
	Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
KING LEAR	Why?
	Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
	They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
	That palter with us in a double sense;
	His secret murders sticking on his hands;
	and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
HORATIO	Here, sweet lord, at your service.
	I told him of the army that was landed;
	That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
KENT	See better, Lear; and let me still remain
	Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
SCENE III	A park near the palace.
	A sable silver'd.
GLOUCESTER	He that will think to live till he be old,
Fourth Lord	Fair one, I think not so.
	[Exit]
LORD POLONIUS	What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
	[Sings]
	[Exit]
	heritage: and I think I shall never have the
	For in the fatness of these pursy times
EDMUND	This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
	Excite the mortified man.
PAROLLES	I'll about it this evening: and I will presently
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man]
	pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
	As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
	The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
	more choler.
	Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
Steward	May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
	'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
	That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
	Some private speech with you.
	of the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
DIANA	                  I'll put in bail, my liege.
	Black and portentous must this humour prove,
	The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
	Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
	[Dies]
	with divers young Lords taking leave for the
	My life were better ended by their hate,
	I might have saved her; now she's gone for ever!
	[Nurse calls within]
	[Enter KENT]
Gentleman	Gracious sovereign,
	to have had so much blood in him.
Lord	He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
	The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
	of.
GLOUCESTER	I shall, my liege.
	This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
	Told him my pilgrimage: but his flaw'd heart,
	the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
Second Clown	Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
	Expire before the flowers in their caps,
	Attendants]
EDMUND	No, my lord.
	Tell me truly.
	Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
	Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
	'Here may you see the tyrant.'
	From the murderer's gibbet throw
	The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
First Apparition	Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
	And bear this work of heaven with patience:
	Among a mineral of metals base,
LAERTES	                  It well appears: but tell me
DIANA	No:
	'Tis bitter.
	His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
	done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
REGAN	For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
	His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
BENVOLIO	Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
COUNTESS	Haste you again.
	To his confine: and of the truth herein
BERTRAM	I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
GLOUCESTER	Know'st thou the way to Dover?
ACT IV
KENT	Did your letters pierce the queen to any
	Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
	business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
	[Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter]
	Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down;
	KING LEAR
KING LEAR	Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
GLOUCESTER	He has some reason, else he could not beg.
	We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
	To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
	Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
	spoken; I have locked the letter in my closet:
	So under fortune, which you thought had been
	Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
	not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him
	[Enter HELENA and Clown]
	[Alarum within. Enter, with drum and colours,
BANQUO	[Within]  Give us a light there, ho!
	What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
	I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
	[Exit]
	am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
	[Storm and tempest]
	his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
	Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
	Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
	[To PAROLLES]
MARCELLUS	It is offended.
	Those bated that inherit but the fall
	That I protest I simply am a maid.
	[Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN]
	Would in so just a business shut his bosom
	It is not so with Him that all things knows
BERTRAM	This very day,
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
	For even the day before, she broke her brow:
Apothecary	Put this in any liquid thing you will,
ANGUS	                  Who was the thane lives yet;
	[Enter EDMUND, and CURAN meets him]
	As one that had been studied in his death
HAMLET	So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
HELENA	You are my mother, madam; would you were,--
	And do such bitter business as the day
	Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
DIANA	Ay, my lord.
	And passion in the gods.'
BENVOLIO	An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
	Come here for physic.
	And we cast away moan:
	Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
	The time and my intents are savage-wild,
	Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
	Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
	This unprevailing woe, and think of us
	Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
	On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
	Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
	thousand pound. Didst perceive?
	'Thou unpossessing bastard! dost thou think,
	Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
	To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
	months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
	That thou consent to marry us to-day.
	That we the pain of death would hourly die
	And usest none in that true use indeed
Nurse	O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
	Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,
LAFEU	To what is count's man: count's master is of
	Shakes so my single state of man that function
OSWALD	Ay, madam.
	In the great hand of God I stand; and thence
	In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
HELENA	Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
	Who lies i' the second chamber?
	For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
	With his inducement.
BERTRAM	My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
MACDUFF	See, who comes here?
CORDELIA	How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
	Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
	My soul is full of discord and dismay.
	All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
LADY CAPULET	Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
	Thou art the nonpareil.
	if he ask for me. I am ill, and gone to bed.
	From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
	But most it is presumption in us when
	tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her
	Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
	The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
	Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
	thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
		         I'll go with thee:
	beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
HAMLET	Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
	Have humbled to all strokes: that I am wretched
	See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
	Strange things I have in head, that will to hand;
	[Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France,
KING	What ring was yours, I pray you?
	[Enter a Gentleman]
	Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:
	Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
Second Servant	When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
First Murderer	You made it known to us.
	Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
KENT	No, my lord.
	And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late;
	Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air
	How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
	Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
HAMLET	[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
	Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
	Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
	And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
	As to peace-parted souls.
MERCUTIO	Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
	you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
	And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
	Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
KING	Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
	[Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS]
BENVOLIO	I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
	Come, vial.
CAPULET	Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
	Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
	him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
PRINCE	Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
	Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
	Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
	And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
	And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
LAERTES	Upon my life, Lamond.
	And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
	have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
	Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
	The help of mine own eyes.
	My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
LORD POLONIUS	That's very true, my lord.
	From the fair forehead of an innocent love
	Your part in her you could not keep from death,
	And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
HORATIO	He waxes desperate with imagination.
	[Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch]
	Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
	dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a
	[Exit Steward]
	This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
ACT I
SCENE IV	A room in Capulet's house.
	By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn:
	There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
	What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
	as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's
	For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
	Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
	you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
ALBANY	See thyself, devil!
Messenger	News, madam;
	Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
KENT	You.
	God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
	[Exeunt Attendants]
MACBETH	I do forget.
	Noting this penury, to myself I said
	Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
	Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
	Is to receive our duties; and our duties
	I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
	The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
LAFEU	There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
First Lord	A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
Clown	It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
	earnest of thy service.
	Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
	He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't;
	And as a stranger to my heart and me
	Of men's impossibilities, have preserved thee.
	husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
LADY MACBETH	'They met me in the day of success: and I have
	[Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD]
	Or for some frontier?
	Where you shall hold your session. At this time
	On plots and errors, happen.
	Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go:
LAERTES	A touch, a touch, I do confess.
	Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
	of all treasons, we still see them reveal
LAERTES	How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
	not in the contents.
	So, thanks to all at once and to each one,
	Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
	the least syllable of thy addition.
	Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
	I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
BALTHASAR	Full half an hour.
	Worthy the note.
	When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
	With wit enough for thee.
	Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
	Myself an enemy to all other joys,
	To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
	both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
ACT IV
	Disguising what they are.
ROMEO	Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
TYBALT	Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
	For what advancement may I hope from thee
	[Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and army]
	Do thee all rights of service.
	Who should against his murderer shut the door,
REGAN	We shall further think on't.
	They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
	Why hath it given me earnest of success,
Fool	Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
	His death was so effected: better 'twere
	As often as I guess'd.
	How light and portable my pain seems now,
	gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
	good fortunes.
	My custom always of the afternoon,
	Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
	Augurs and understood relations have
	And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
	Let sorrow split my heart, if ever I
MACDUFF	O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
EDMUND	Nor in thine, lord.
	Heaven forgive him too!
OSRIC	I know you are not ignorant--
BERTRAM	I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
PAROLLES	That you will take your instant leave o' the king
	That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
LADY MACBETH	Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
	presently.
	Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
	him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
	Is often laudable, to do good sometime
	Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
BENVOLIO	No, coz, I rather weep.
	[Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray;
HELENA	His name, I pray you.
ACT IV
	With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
ROSENCRANTZ	Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
Doctor	I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
	fain to hang you.
	the streets,
	state, which since his coming forth is thought
	Or show the glory of our art?
	The fit is momentary; upon a thought
	From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
	I have sworn 't.
	That dares not undertake: he'll not feel wrongs
HAMLET	Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
	more owing her than is paid; and more shall be paid
FRANCISCO	Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
MERCUTIO	Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
	Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
First Lord	The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
	But Romeo may not; he is banished:
	Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
	then enter Citizens, with clubs]
ALBANY	Gloucester, I live
BERTRAM	Stay: the king.
	Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
	Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
	(First Player:)
	That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
	O, step between her and her fighting soul:
	You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
	Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
	Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
	I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
	sure, they are bastards to the English; the French
	worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
	That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
EDGAR	Look up, my lord.
JULIET	O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
Nurse	Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
EDGAR	How now, brother Edmund! what serious
	And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
