	I never yet was valiant: for this business,
	And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
	How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
DIANA	Whatsome'er he is,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
	Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
	Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
	To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
	I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
DIANA	Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty:
	I might have saved her; now she's gone for ever!
	Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
	button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
	will think of thee at court.
	Most welcome home!
	Your name, your quality? and why you answer
	Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last,
	But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
	If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
KING	But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
	He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
	A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
MACBETH	                  Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
	your breeding.
	too: we shall speak of you there.
	Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
PAROLLES	Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
	then enter Citizens, with clubs]
	[Lying down at OPHELIA's feet]
	Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
	And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
	Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
	A Priest. (First Priest:)
	For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
	Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
	The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
	My being here it is that holds thee hence:
	name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
TYBALT	You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
	and Attendants]
	daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
	Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
	Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
	that my lord your son was upon his return home, I
	All continent impediments would o'erbear
Player King	   I do believe you think what now you speak;
	Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
	Lest with this piteous action you convert
HAMLET	I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
KING	Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
HORATIO	What news, my lord?
	Is very cunning in.
	Ere human statute purged the gentle weal;
	stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
	[Exit]
	As is a winged messenger of heaven
	That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
Nurse	Ay, ay, the cords.
	And am most sensible in grief for it,
BERTRAM	I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
First Murderer	And I another
	MACBETH, as queen, LENNOX, ROSS, Lords, Ladies, and
	Yes, 'faith heartily.
EDMUND	Not I	pray you, what are they?
KING LEAR	My lord of Burgundy.
	May sweep to my revenge.
	He should the bearers put to sudden death,
	[Enter KENT, GLOUCESTER, and EDMUND]
	My father!--methinks I see my father.
HAMLET	How if I answer 'no'?
	Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
	noble and true-hearted Kent banished! his
Second Lord	This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
	Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
	In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
HORATIO	Where, my lord?
	Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
	Whoever charges on his forward breast,
	The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
MACDUFF	Boundless intemperance
	Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
PETER	Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
	To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
	his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
	They summon'd up their meiny, straight took horse;
	To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
	One scene of it comes near the circumstance
	A good man's fortune may grow out at heels:
	Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
	known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
LADY MACDUFF	Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
LAERTES	Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
	Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
	The art of our necessities is strange,
LAFEU	[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
	[Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE]
First Clown	Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
	To throw away the dearest thing he owed,
	Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
	[Exit]
	A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
MACBETH	As I descended?
	So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again?
	crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
	The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
	I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
	(Second Clown:)
	As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
	How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
	But I have that within which passeth show;
	The changeling never known. Now, the next day
	The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
	[Dies]
	how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
	Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
	Well worth a poor man's taking: fairies and gods
	GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants]
	[A show of Eight Kings, the last with a glass in
CAPULET	A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
First Witch	                  Speak.
	'lady, lady, lady.'
	grave's this, sirrah?
	[One calls within 'Juliet.']
	Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
	accent was a plain knave; which for my part
	Unfold the imagined happiness that both
	What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
LAERTES	My lord, I'll hit him now.
	|  Dear sir, forbear.
PAROLLES	Sir?
Second Witch	Demand.
	And for your rapier most especially,
HAMLET	This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
	Must be of such unnatural degree,
HAMLET	I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
	made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
	For fair without the fair within to hide:
	Command upon me; to the which my duties
KING LEAR	No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	How now, Ophelia!
	[Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman]
GREGORY	No, for then we should be colliers.
CORDELIA	Still, still, far wide!
	Love make your fortunes twenty times above
	dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
	That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
HAMLET	Do you see nothing there?
	Or like a creature native and indued
	Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
	Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
	At last, a little shaking of mine arm
		  Thanks for your pains.
	The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
	But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
	Our wills and fates do so contrary run
	That speak my salutation in their minds;
	hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
	Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
HAMLET	O, but she'll keep her word.
LORD POLONIUS	That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
ROSS	That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker:
	I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
ACT IV
	Horrible sight! Now, I see, 'tis true;
HELENA	And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
	For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
	your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
KING	Those girls of Italy, take heed of them:
	Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
	Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
	to the wall.
	[Exit]
	[Exeunt]
ROMEO	Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
HAMLET	Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
Gentlewoman	Directly.
	between that and my blood.
KING LEAR	Read.
	If seriously I may convey my thoughts
	That monthly changes in her circled orb,
	Though castles topple on their warders' heads;
	My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
Gentleman	Not, indeed:
KING CLAUDIUS	Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
	Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
	me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
First Lord	Farewell, captain.
	Than praised for harmful mildness.
	Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
	Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
	Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
	Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
OPHELIA	I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
ROSENCRANTZ	|
	My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
REGAN	I speak in understanding; you are; I know't:
Third Witch	And I another.
	Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
	A thing like death to chide away this shame,
	'hic jacet.'
		To be thus is nothing;
	for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
	But to himself so secret and so close,
	On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
	Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
LORD POLONIUS	[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
	I'd shake it on this quarrel. What do you mean?
	I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness;
	Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
	Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, and EDGAR dressed like a peasant]
	So please you, let me now be left alone,
BERTRAM	Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know
	The nature of his great offence is dead,
	I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
	indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and
	[Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS]
LAFEU	'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a
LORD POLONIUS	'Tis most true:
	Would have inform'd for preparation.
DIANA	Ay, my good lord.
	You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
	office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by
	Five days we do allot thee, for provision
	Even till destruction sicken; answer me
	Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword
	His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
	And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
	that she sends you to prison hither?
	That capability and god-like reason
	Madam, my lord will go away to-night;
KING	Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
	With blood of thine already.
	Last, and as much containing as all these,
	There is a litter ready; lay him in 't,
	worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
	Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
SCENE IV	A hall in the same.
	herself wittingly.
	[Enter HELENA and Widow]
	That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
	I know not how I shall assure you further,
First Lord	                  So 'tis reported, sir.
KING	Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
	O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
Messenger	The king comes here to-night.
	Here's yet some liquor left.
	Among nine bad if one be good,
	fairer face.
MONTAGUE	I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
	KING LEAR
	the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
EDMUND	Save thee, Curan.
	The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
	[Alarum and retreat within. Re-enter EDGAR]
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
	With other graces weigh'd.
	Even to the disposition that I owe,
	You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
KING LEAR	Ask her forgiveness?
	(Second Murderer:)
	That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
	In second husband let me be accurst!
	We could control them. If you will come to me,--
ROSS	What sights, my lord?
	English Ambassadors. (First Ambassador:)
	Were the graced person of our Banquo present;
	Stay here.
	His fault concludes but what the law should end,
	What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
	[The GHOST OF BANQUO enters, and sits in
	Are here arrived give order that these bodies
	thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
REGAN	That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.
	We cannot get from him.
COUNTESS	Well, sir.
	And do not know ourselves, when we hold rumour
BERTRAM	My thanks and duty are your majesty's.
	To do upon respect such violent outrage:
	[Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
	maintain it to be fit, that, sons at perfect age,
	With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
	The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
	A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
	And will this brother's wager frankly play.
	[Enter ROSS]
	That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
BENVOLIO	nephew to Montague, and friend to Romeo.
	Yet have I left a daughter.
	[Enter, with drum and colours, ALBANY, GONERIL, and Soldiers]
	I take my leave at once.
	greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
SCENE IV	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
HAMLET	It will not speak; then I will follow it.
	For I can guess that by thy honest aid
	And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
	For wise men are grown foppish,
	But that I know love is begun by time;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	If it be,
	Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
	strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
	uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
	For breathing and exploit.
	but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
	He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
	Attend his further pleasure.
	Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,
	The knave turns fool that runs away;
REGAN	For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
	Let him fear this, for it will come to pass
KING	The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears;
	Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
	For he himself is subject to his birth:
JULIET	I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
ROMEO	That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
	Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
First Murderer	It was, so please your highness.
MACBETH	The service and the loyalty I owe,
	[Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two
	What's in a name? that which we call a rose
	After he scores, he never pays the score:
	Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
	confirm my speech.
	His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
	As is the night before some festival
ROMEO	O single-soled jest, solely singular for the
	[Enter Fool]
COUNTESS	Well, now.
LAFEU	Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
	thought he would.
	Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
	knot of his scarf, and the practise in the chape of
	There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
	[Exit]
	In the corrupted currents of this world
	MACBETH
	my life, except my life.
EDGAR	A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows;
KING CLAUDIUS	Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
	Stuck in my throat.
	Making them proud of his humility,
	lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
JULIET	What must be shall be.
	HAMLET
	That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
PARIS	My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
	Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
KING CLAUDIUS	Pretty Ophelia!
	And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
KING CLAUDIUS	Who shall stay you?
SCENE IV	Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
	Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
	For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	They know not how their wits to wear,
	to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
	But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
Second Lord	Hardly serve.
Clown	But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned
Nurse	Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,
	We do it wrong, being so majestical,
	[Enter ROMEO]
	[Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU]
	both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
	As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
	That clogs me with this answer.'
GLOUCESTER	Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
	Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
ROMEO	Is she a Capulet?
	I will entreat you, when you see my son,
	Here in the lobby.
	Upon her great disaster.
Gentleman	'Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of 'father'
	Unless the deed go with it; from this moment
	Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
	Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
	Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
	The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
CAPULET	Tush, I will stir about,
	It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
	'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
	I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
	I come to tender it and my appliance
	And let him know so.
	The sway, revenue, execution of the rest,
	that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
	After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
	deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
	As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
	Being in night, all this is but a dream,
OPHELIA	Still better, and worse.
LAERTES	O, treble woe
	Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,
	bate thee a scruple.
HORATIO	A truant disposition, good my lord.
MACBETH	Fled to England!
	Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
	Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
POLONIUS	lord chamberlain. (LORD POLONIUS:)
	dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a
HAMLET	I pray you.
	Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
	And of his old experience the oily darling,
HAMLET	Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
	I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
	Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
EDMUND	'Twas my duty, sir.
	With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
FRIAR LAURENCE	Go with me to the vault.
	[Knocking within. Enter a Porter]
	Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
PAROLLES	Little Helen, farewell; if I can remember thee, I
	He is too good and fair for death and me:
	Makes vow before his uncle never more
	Unsafe the while, that we
	they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
	And say which grain will grow and which will not,
	Here he comes.
Nurse	Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
	I had my father's signet in my purse,
KING LEAR	Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
	[Throwing down a glove]
	Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
	Aloof from the entire point. Will you have her?
	Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
HELENA	His name, I pray you.
	through ford and whirlipool e'er bog and quagmire;
Nurse	O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
	By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
	'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
BERTRAM	I heard not of it before.
	You know the fiery quality of the duke;
	Yea, from the table of my memory
	Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
GONERIL	Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
	disposition.
	[Exit]
	Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
	In the division of each several crime,
Gentleman	I shall, my liege.
ROSENCRANTZ	My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
	Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome:
	So may it come, thy master, whom thou lovest,
	The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
	And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
	Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
	Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
MACBETH	We should have else desired your good advice,
	No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
	[Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM,
	[Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
Second Lord	Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
LADY MACBETH	Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
	And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;
Second Musician	I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
ALBANY	Stay till I have read the letter.
	To say to me that thou art out of breath?
EDGAR	'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
	Do thou for him stand:
	the place for your labour.
	They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
	Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
	But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
BENVOLIO	By my head, here come the Capulets.
Servant	My master's.
	[Dies]
	The danger to itself?
	house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
	Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
	On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
	I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
	Alack, too weak the conflict to support!
	More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
	He flashes into one gross crime or other,
	Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing,
	the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
Messenger	Both, both, my lord.
	Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
	Poor Tom shall lead thee.
	God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
EDGAR	Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
	Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
	As much as child e'er loved, or father found;
	Not knowing them until we know their grave:
	Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
	And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
	this place is too cold for hell. I'll devil-porter
	close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
	Does not become a sword: thy great employment
	see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
	come unbutton here.
	The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear;
	[Exit]
	foul the clearness of our deservings, when of
KING LEAR	What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes
DUNCAN	Where's the thane of Cawdor?
	A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
	Moreover that we much did long to see you,
	Since you are like to see the king before me,
	Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
	A little month, or ere those shoes were old
Son	And be all traitors that do so?
	time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
	the rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,
	Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
ACT III
	Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent,
COUNTESS	Nor I your mother?
	Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
	His means of death, his obscure funeral--
HAMLET	How is it with you, lady?
LAFEU	I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
	That ever ear received: which in recounting
	Meet me i' the morning: thither he
	When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
	Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
LADY MACDUFF	Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
LORD POLONIUS	Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
	You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
	the dukes he values most; for equalities are so
	Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
	But to his foe supposed he must complain,
	this starting.
	Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
	That she would never put it from her finger,
	Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
	Dies in his own too much: that we would do
	Or never after look me in the face:
	The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
LAERTES	                  The devil take thy soul!
	To tell him that his sword can never win
	Still to return your own.
CAPULET	O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
MACBETH	I conjure you, by that which you profess,
HORATIO	Do, if it will not stand.
	Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
	the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be
	the king my old master must be relieved. There is
	Against the grace and person of my master,
	When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
HAMLET	Nay, but to live
	And desperately are dead.
	Your matrons and your maids, could not fill up
	Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
CURAN	And you, sir. I have been with your father, and
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, KING LEAR, KENT, Fool, and EDGAR]
	To hear of it: they are about the court,
	Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid:
	As checking at his voyage, and that he means
	qualified in; and the best of me is diligence.
	Well ratified by law and heraldry,
LAERTES	Upon my life, Lamond.
	[Exit PAROLLES]
	What thou art promised: yet do I fear thy nature;
	That going shall be used with feet.
	I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
	So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
	religion, their heads are both one; they may jowl
Fool	Yes, indeed: thou wouldst make a good fool.
	And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
OSWALD	Let go, slave, or thou diest!
	With all the strength and armour of the mind,
	Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
MARCELLUS	How is't, my noble lord?
	To make this creature fruitful!
PAROLLES	Bravely, coragio!
	Know Banquo was your enemy.
	Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
	you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
	Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
CORDELIA	O my dear father! Restoration hang
ROMEO	                  Tush, thou art deceived:
	Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
	I did commend your highness' letters to them,
	Given to the common enemy of man,
LAFEU	O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox?
	He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
EDGAR	                  This would have seem'd a period
MONTAGUE	Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
	Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
	The noble thanes do bravely in the war;
BENVOLIO	This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
	And when 'tis told, O, that my heart would burst!
	And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
	O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
	slave, strike.
	rogues are marvellous poor.
	You do remember all the circumstance?
SAMPSON	[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
	Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
	That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
	And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
LAERTES	Say you so? come on.
	And gave this sentence then;
Clown	One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her
PAROLLES	Why, do you not know him?
	I will omit no opportunity
	How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
	To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
Nurse	What's this? what's this?
	In expectation of them. O dear father,
ALBANY	Who dead? speak, man.
	[Exit]
HAMLET	What man dost thou dig it for?
ROMEO	Nay, good goose, bite not.
BERNARDO	Well, good night.
GONERIL	There is further compliment of leavetaking
	So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
Soldiers	It shall be done.
	lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
	Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
	To let him live: where he arrives he moves
	Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
	fain think it were not.
Nurse	Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
HELENA	You are too young, too happy, and too good,
	more in your respect.
	To this unworthy husband of his wife;
	for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
	Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter.
	[To KING OF FRANCE]
GUILDENSTERN	|
	They are not near my conscience; their defeat
Chorus	Two households, both alike in dignity,
	Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
GONERIL	[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
Gentleman	                  Sir, speed you: what's your will?
HAMLET	I must to England; you know that?
	together: if our father carry authority with
	Do I put up that womanly defence,
	And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
PARIS	Do not deny to him that you love me.
Doctor	A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once
	Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
	assembly: whither should they come?
Fool	I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
	Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
BALTHASAR	I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
	What warlike noise is this?
Clown	My poor body, madam, requires it: I am driven on
	What we shall say we have and what we owe.
	Hath lost me in your liking.
	[Singing]
SCENE II	The Earl of Gloucester's castle.
KING LEAR	What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
	That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
	And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?
Second Lord	God bless you, Captain Parolles.
	Move them no more by crossing their high will.
	Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
Ghost	 So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
	and 'gentleman.'
	That we find out the cause of this effect,
	Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
Fool	She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
	majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
	And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
	[Exit Attendant]
	Is left this vault to brag of.
	Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
	To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
	So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
	And the exchange my brother! Here, in the sands,
	For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
First Lord	But you say she's honest.
	Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
OSWALD	Out, dunghill!
HAMLET	Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
	Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
	Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
	Corrupt the tender honour of a maid:
	express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
	Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
	Of direst cruelty! make thick my blood;
	And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
	Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
KING LEAR	If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
BERTRAM	Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell.
REGAN	I never shall endure her: dear my lord,
	done cannot be undone.--To bed, to bed, to bed!
MERCUTIO	I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
ALBANY	Half-blooded fellow, yes.
HORATIO	Nay, very pale.
	That ever I should live to see thee dead!
	Where's your father?
	Than such an one to reign.
	Digressing from the valour of a man;
	withered pears, it looks ill, it eats drily; marry,
	Or from our masters?
KENT	Who's there, besides foul weather?
COUNTESS	'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
	entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
	In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
	nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits,
	Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
	But answer made it none: yet once methought
MARCELLUS	What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Second Lord	On my life, my lord, a bubble.
	That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
	To this same place, to this same monument.
	Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots;
	knowest me! Is it two days ago since I tripped up
	And you whose places are the nearest, know
	'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
	More than to see this ring. Take him away.
	Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
	Which do command them. With him I sent the queen;
	But you'll be secret?
JULIET	The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
TYBALT	This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
		    O, give me leave:
	[Enter HAMLET, reading]
	Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
	likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with
	upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep,
	it is a prison.
	'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old;
	O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
	Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
PAROLLES	It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace,
	providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
Second Lord	Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
	[Enter PAROLLES guarded, and First Soldier]
	sir.
	Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
GONERIL	Nay, then--
	Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
	For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
	And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
	Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
	serve him still.
	Shall have more vices than it had before,
	KING LEAR
ROMEO	I dream'd a dream to-night.
	That he suspects none: on whose foolish honesty
Clown	So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
	He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
GREGORY	Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
	'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
	When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
	I must change arms at home, and give the distaff
	Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
		 Why, so: being gone,
Second Lord	He must think us some band of strangers i' the
	this other day, what should follow these eclipses.
	Had he a hand to write this? a heart and brain
KING LEAR	Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's
	The castle of Macduff I will surprise;
	|	We will haste us.
Servant	Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
	Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
	My master calls me, I must not say no.
Fool	Why, to put his head in; not to give it away to his
BERTRAM	                  Some six months since, my lord.
First Lord	He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
	Our point of second meeting. Do you find
	Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
	To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
	That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
	[Enter MACDUFF]
	And, look you, here's your letter; this it says:
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three]
	soldiers and my young lady!
	Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
	On the fore-finger of an alderman,
	Then, as the manner of our country is,
KING	She hath that ring of yours.
	And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
PRINCE	Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
	reading it he changed almost into another man.
MALCOLM	Merciful heaven!
BENVOLIO	There lies that Tybalt.
	But that the dread of something after death,
	That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
BENVOLIO	Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
	Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
Clown	O Lord, sir! spare not me.
LORD POLONIUS	He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
HELENA	You see it lawful, then: it is no more,
	Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
GONERIL	Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
First Lord	If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no
	have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
	Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
	That our devices still are overthrown;
	I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
	Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back;
Widow	So, now they come:
SAMPSON	I strike quickly, being moved.
	be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
	For your good host; pray that the right may thrive:
GLOUCESTER	Take him you on.
	Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
	thrive long under her? There's a quart d'ecu for
	Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
	They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Son	Nay, how will you do for a husband?
	[Re-enter OSWALD]
BANQUO	It will be rain to-night.
SCENE II	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	[Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA]
PAROLLES	Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
MARCELLUS	Holla! Bernardo!
	The same upon your finger.
	thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
	dares, being dared.
	As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
ROSS	From Fife, great king;
	But rather make you thank your pains for it.
MALCOLM	Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
	From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
	Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
	Strengthen'd with what apology you think
	mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
	Till honour be bought up and no sword worn
	And I am proof against their enmity.
	The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
EDMUND	Sound!
	Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
	That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
	To make thee seek it.'
	afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
ACT IV
	this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
	from my brother, that I have not all o'er-read;
	Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
	Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
	Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
PETER	Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
	'Tis strange.
	looked to, without any tricks.
	Gentlewoman attending on Lady Macbeth. (Gentlewoman:)
		    What can man's wisdom
	A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
ACT V
	[Exeunt]
	[Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching]
Second Murderer	I am one, my liege,
	penning of it.
	The worships of their name. O most small fault,
	In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
MACDUFF	Stands Scotland where it did?
	Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
	Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
	This night you shall behold him at our feast;
	nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
HAMLET	                  His beard was grizzled--no?
MACBETH	So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
	Yet these fixed evils sit so fit in him,
	Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
	'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
ALBANY	Even so. Cover their faces.
REYNALDO	As gaming, my lord.
	Make trivial price of serious things we have,
	Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
BERTRAM	He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
	pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my
	Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
	And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
	Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
	Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
	[Music plays, and they dance]
JULIET	daughter to Capulet.
	Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
	Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
First Clown	Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
	Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
	And by and by my master drew on him;
LAFEU	A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
	That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
ROSS	                  Wife, children, servants, all
	It were done quickly: if the assassination
	I would, while it was smiling in my face,
BERTRAM	Stay: the king.
HELENA	Ay, my good lord.
	Behind the arras hearing something stir,
	There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
LAFEU	He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very
	I am now from home, and out of that provision
	[Exeunt MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE]
ROMEO	Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
	To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlorn,
LAERTES	I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
	That idles in the wanton summer air,
FRIAR LAURENCE	O, she knew well
COUNTESS	Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
	Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth;
	So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
	white herring. Croak not, black angel; I have no
	The greatest is behind.
	With this night's revels and expire the term
	Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,
	Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
	sleeves? do other servants so? Thou wert best set
First Musician	Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
	As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
	Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
	To County Paris: then comes she to me,
	Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
	And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
OSWALD	Madam, with much ado:
	The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
	Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
	Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
Clown	As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,
	Pleasant and helpful to him!
HAMLET	Why,
	That names me traitor, villain-like he lies:
	He met the night-mare, and her nine-fold;
	Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
	No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
	He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
	and nod at every man.
First Clown	Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
	[To EDGAR]
	To bid me trudge:
	To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
	But for the sunset of my brother's son
	Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
First Witch	A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
EDMUND	Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
	Of the extreme verge: for all beneath the moon
	Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
	Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
	Proud can I never be of what I hate;
GLOUCESTER	He that will think to live till he be old,
	To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
	[Exeunt]
	yesty collection, which carries them through and
Servant	Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the
	[Exeunt]
	Which, as the dearest issue of his practise,
	Which bewept to the grave did go
	Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
	And not have strew'd thy grave.
MERCUTIO	Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
	[Exeunt]
	What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
	Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
ROSENCRANTZ	No, indeed, are they not.
SIWARD	Then he is dead?
	Written to bear along.
	It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
	Her estimation home.
	Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
LAERTES	A touch, a touch, I do confess.
EDGAR	By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
	Best half of our affair.
BERNARDO	|
	Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
	Most thoroughly for my father.
	I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
	If, till the expiration of your month,
	if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
	Is often laudable, to do good sometime
	But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
LAFEU	'Fore God, I think so.
	I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
	Let sorrow split my heart, if ever I
Second Witch	Show!
	love. Read thou this challenge; mark but the
CORNWALL	Get horses for your mistress.
	I will look further into't. But where's my fool? I
KING OF FRANCE:
	That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
First Watchman	A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
	The sleepy grooms with blood.
First Murderer	His horses go about.
	I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
	Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
	For such a business; therefore am I found
	At least we'll die with harness on our back.
HELENA	Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me
	Fall, when Love please! marry, to each, but one!
	They say he parted well, and paid his score:
KING LEAR	Your name, fair gentlewoman?
	Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
KING LEAR	You are welcome hither.
	You less know how to value her desert
	Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and
	old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing
Gentleman	And you.
LAFEU	Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
	And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
CAPULET	Ready to go, but never to return.
	though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
	As 'tis reported, for the king had married him
LORD POLONIUS	You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
	comes himself.
	And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
EDGAR	Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
	Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
	Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
HORATIO	They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
	You know the wager?
	And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
HAMLET	At supper.
KING OF FRANCE	(KING:)
	Not met us on the way.
	Within the belt of rule.
	stoup of liquor.
	And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend:
	One of the greatest in the Christian world
	me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
ACT I
CAPULET	Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
	but something
	By his authority I will proclaim it,
	As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
FRIAR LAURENCE	Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
	There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
	And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
CORNWALL	Peace, sirrah!
	Tell me--but truly--but then speak the truth,
EDMUND	Parted you in good terms? Found you no
BENVOLIO	I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
	Their precious stones new lost: became his guide,
	For ever knit.
	[To GONERIL]
	And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
	Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mills,
	Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
	Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
Nurse	Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
	This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
GLOUCESTER	O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
	You should not use me so.
HELENA	Pardon, madam;
	With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
	and waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!
KING	Make thy demand.
	She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
	If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
	To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
	the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the
	indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
	Some that will thank you, making just report
	And of the loyal service of his son,
	Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
ROSENCRANTZ	'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
FRIAR LAURENCE	Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
HAMLET	No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
	carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with
	Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
	Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
	what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
	Now wears his crown.
	But till the troops come by,
	For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
	repent out the remainder of nature: let me live,
	How does your honour for this many a day?
	Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
	So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
	Affront Ophelia:
	Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
	That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
	[Enter a Captain]
ALBANY	Well, you may fear too far.
	If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
	And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
GUILDENSTERN	There are the players.
	Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	[Tucket]
	And sure I am two men there are not living
KING	[Reads]  Upon his many protestations to marry me
COUNTESS	It hath happened all as I would have had it, save
	Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
	Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
	then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
	[Enter MACBETH, Doctor, and Attendants]
	That are so fortified against our story
	and more strange return.                  'HAMLET.'
	A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
	This his good melancholy oft began,
	And in the cup an union shall he throw,
	Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
HAMLET	The point!--envenom'd too!
JULIET	Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
	questions?
	Why should we in our peevish opposition
	And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
	Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
	With that she sighed as she stood,
	That still would manage those authorities
	Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
TYBALT	Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
LAFEU	All that he is hath reference to your highness.
	Seyton, send out. Doctor, the thanes fly from me.
	To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
	Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
	Against your vain assault.
LAERTES	My will, not all the world:
BERTRAM	They told me that your name was Fontibell.
GONERIL	Holla, holla!
	Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
	[Exit Servant]
	Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
	The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
LAFEU	[Advancing]  Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
KING LEAR	No.
	[Enter EDGAR]
	Look up a-height; the shrill-gorged lark so far
	Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife
	If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
Clown	Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
	Into your guiding power. This is the man.
	Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
	modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
	Leave thy drink and thy whore,
	Burst smilingly.
	I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
HAMLET	I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
GLOUCESTER	Now let thy friendly hand
ALBANY	Pray, sir, be patient.
	As I remember, this should be the house.
GUILDENSTERN	                  But we both obey,
Fool	O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry
PAROLLES	Right; so I say.
	The fits o' the season. I dare not speak
KING CLAUDIUS	Love! his affections do not that way tend;
Nurse	O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
	To press before thy father to a grave?
Second Clown	Was he a gentleman?
	If you should tender your supposed aid,
	Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
	Ripeness is all: come on.
	Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
	To hang Cordelia in the prison, and
KING CLAUDIUS	How long hath she been thus?
	'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more;
GONERIL	|
	And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
	HAMLET
	Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude;
COUNTESS	Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
	Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
	say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
	And the best quarrels, in the heat, are cursed
HAMLET	I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
EDMUND	How now! What's the matter?
	We are undone, lady, we are undone!
	here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
	The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
PAROLLES	The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Ay me, what act,
	[March afar off, and shot within]
ROMEO	Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
LORD POLONIUS	Very like a whale.
	Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
	The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
	[LADY MACBETH is carried out]
	the two Frenchmen, with a troop of soldiers.
	A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
JULIET	How now! who calls?
	thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
	be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
	What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
KING LEAR	They durst not do 't;
	How does your patient, doctor?
	Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
	Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
	beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy
ROSS	The king hath happily received, Macbeth,
BENVOLIO	Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
	wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
	[Exit]
	If this man come to good.
	knock! Who's there, in the other devil's
Gentlewoman	Why, it stood by her: she has light by her
	highness wronged.
	Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.
	Till we can clear these ambiguities,
	I would not be the villain that thou think'st
	way.
	He'll shape his old course in a country new.
	If you can look into the seeds of time,
	[Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING, attended
	abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
	[Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM]
	Soldiers, and Attendants
	[Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO]
	Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
	His countenance for the battle; which being done,
	Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
	His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
	Thou comest in such a questionable shape
	I must be cruel, only to be kind:
	I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
GLOUCESTER	I would have all well betwixt you.
	Let us impart what we have seen to-night
	With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
GLOUCESTER	But have I fall'n, or no?
	To entertain't so merrily with a fool.
	KING LEAR
	Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
	Whose face between her forks presages snow;
	Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
DUNCAN	No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive
	[KENT is set at liberty]
	The boy gives warning something doth approach.
	That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
	In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
	Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
	What does this mean, my lord?
	I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
	Making the green one red.
LORD POLONIUS	Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
	That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
	Truly, however else.
	[Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS]
	[Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND]
	Your marriage comes by destiny,
	Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
	Ten masts at each make not the altitude
	Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
	Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
	and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
	[Enter Chorus]
	I would he loved his wife: if he were honester
	When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down,
	Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown.
	You look but on a stool.
REGAN	What might import my sister's letter to him?
	He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
	Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
	Abate thy valour in the acting it.
Nurse	I speak no treason.
HAMLET	No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
	Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
MACBETH	                  If we should fail?
KING LEAR	Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.
EDGAR	Hail, gentle sir.
	Attendants, and Messengers. (Lord:)
	Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;
HAMLET	Why?
	[Exit]
SCENE III	Juliet's chamber.
	For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
EDGAR	Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
	On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
	world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
	[Re-enter JULIET, above]
	An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
	Young fry of treachery!
	That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
	But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
	Into the madness wherein now he raves,
LAERTES	Why ask you this?
	Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
	Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
	[Exit. Knocking within]
HAMLET	Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
LAERTES	What ceremony else?
KING	Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
	For I by vow am so embodied yours,
	Tell me what more thou know'st.
	And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
	Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
OSWALD	Madam, within; but never man so changed.
BERTRAM	Change it, change it;
ABRAHAM	Quarrel sir! no, sir.
	That had he Duncan's sons under his key--
	Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
OPHELIA	Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
	You will do't, sir, really.
	The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
	Where they shall rest for ever. Trumpets, speak!
	die; but that, my offences being many, I would
	Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
	Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
	It waves you to a more removed ground:
LAFEU	Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
	state, which since his coming forth is thought
ROMEO	Pink for flower.
GLOUCESTER	And that's true too.
TYBALT	Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
	I am for France.
	Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Knight	Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
	Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
SIWARD	Enter, sir, the castle.
ROSENCRANTZ	[To POLONIUS]  God save you, sir!
	Inform her full of my particular fear;
	We are reconciled, and the first view shall kill
	and others]
	|
	A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
	Say to the king the knowledge of the broil
	their books,
	With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
	Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
MERCUTIO	More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
PAROLLES	That, having this obtain'd, you presently
JULIET	I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
	To England send him, or confine him where
	That worthied him, got praises of the king
	So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
HAMLET	How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
	[Exeunt]
	That youth and observation copied there;
	And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
LAERTES	Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
	He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
	My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
	The head and source of all your son's distemper.
	That she may quickly come.
	Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
First Witch	I myself have all the other,
MACBETH	Your children shall be kings.
	A woman's story at a winter's fire,
EDGAR	Well pray you, father.
	Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
	something: where did I leave?
	And rather muse than ask why I entreat you,
HELENA	Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
	[Exit]
HELENA	What I can do can do no hurt to try,
KING LEAR	Pray, do not mock me:
	Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
	Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
	Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight.
	To Lammas-tide?
	say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
	's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
	MACBETH
	That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son;
	and colours]
	beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
BALTHASAR	servant to Romeo.
	Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
ROMEO	I would I were thy bird.
	But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
JULIET	O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
	[Exit an Attendant]
	That all particulars of duty know,
	the daintier sense.
	Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
KING CLAUDIUS	Not that I think you did not love your father;
	That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
Captain	They are of Norway, sir.
	He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
	Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
	unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he
	I will preserve myself: and am bethought
	great a prince as you are.
	and the parent; death, dearth, dissolutions of
GONERIL	Let your study
	either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
ROMEO	Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
	Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
	Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
	A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
First Witch	Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
	[Points to his heart]
KING LEAR	By Jupiter, I swear, no.
CORNWALL	What means your grace?
	honourable friend.
	displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his
	To show their open banner. Now to you:
	myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
	You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
	Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace.
ROMEO	This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
	Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
	Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
	For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
	Shall be my surety; 'fore whose throne 'tis needful,
LAFEU	Who? God?
	And put upon him such a deal of man,
HAMLET	Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
	Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE]
	Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
KING LEAR	Peace, Kent!
HAMLET	Ay, marry, is't:
	and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
	That, being of so young days brought up with him,
HAMLET	Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
	it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
	Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
JULIET	Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
SCENE I	The British camp, near Dover.
	Cannot conceive nor name thee!
	like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
	The only son of your great enemy.
BERNARDO	                  See, it stalks away!
	ceremonious affection as you were wont; there's a
	To see another thus. I know not what to say.
	your father.
	That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
	Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
	royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
BERTRAM	I have it not.
	And let the wise man fly:
	Thou liest.
CAITHNESS	Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
	press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
	Our offices and what we have to do
Nurse	This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
	I keep a servant fee'd. I will to-morrow,
	stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your son:
	morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
	commander; and that with his own hand he slew the
	Both more and less have given him the revolt,
BERTRAM	No matter: his heels have deserved it, in usurping
FRIAR LAURENCE	Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
HAMLET	An earnest conjuration from the king,
	understand him, unless some one among us whom we
	May they not be my oracles as well,
	A little water clears us of this deed:
BENVOLIO	Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
CORDELIA	Then be't so, my good lord.
	Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
	the attempt I vow.
	This coronet part betwixt you.
	Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
	Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
	That are but mutes or audience to this act,
	Look on't again I dare not.
KENT	Who's there?
	Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
	Give us the foils. Come on.
	Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
	Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
	You may so in the end.
	Man's life's as cheap as beast's: thou art a lady;
	Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;
	I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
	But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
	Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
	The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
	[Enter a Servant]
	And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
	[A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within]
	And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
	Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
KING LEAR	Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
	Hear me one word.
	Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
	be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
Second Witch	Show me, show me.
	[To some Attendants]
	The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
	I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
	That we have had no time to move our daughter:
	Of his behavior.
	Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
	[Exeunt all but KENT and Gentleman]
HAMLET	What's his weapon?
	All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
	Most lamentable day, most woful day,
	When every case in law is right;
MACBETH	The thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress me
	What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
	soon moody to be moved.
JULIET	What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
	When we would bring him on to some confession
	I would Poison that vile rascal.
PRINCE	Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
	All is the fear and nothing is the love;
	That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
	He hence removed last night and with more haste
	You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.
	Send for your ring, I will return it home,
ALBANY	O Goneril!
	[Exit, above]
	And reason panders will.
	Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
	Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
	But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
KING LEAR	I will die bravely, like a bridegroom. What!
	[Exeunt CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, PARIS, and FRIAR LAURENCE]
	that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
OSRIC	Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
	If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
SAMPSON	Fear me not.
	Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
	Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
KING	The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
PAROLLES	Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
	Have more than thou showest,
KING LEAR	Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
KENT	                  Hail to thee, noble master!
	Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
	demonstration of grief?
	[Thunder. Second Apparition: A bloody Child]
	instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
	Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
	Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
	by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
	Will I set up my everlasting rest,
	Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
	when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
HAMLET	In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
	pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
	And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
	(Player Queen:)
	There would have been a time for such a word.
First Witch	Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
	And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
	Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
	Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
	Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
	Her that so wishes and her humble love!
	Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
	Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
	He that conceals him, death.
	I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
	We may of their encounter frankly judge,
GLOUCESTER	I know that voice.
	That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
	Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
	Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift;
	And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
	I cannot but remember such things were,
First Apparition	Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
PETER	Anon!
	(Third Murderer:)
	We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
	As fits a king's remembrance.
	O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
KING	Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
ROMEO	So thrive my soul--
	Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
ABRAHAM	Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
	Rest you merry!
	'Give me,' quoth I:
	rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
Gentleman	Who is conductor of his people?
	you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
	Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
ACT IV
	And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
	To have well-armed friends.
MACDUFF	What three things does drink especially provoke?
ROMEO	Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
	Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
	great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
	What comfort to this great decay may come
	[Beats down their swords]
EDMUND	Look, sir, I bleed.
	they say barnes are blessings.
	[Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR]
	Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
PRINCE	This letter doth make good the friar's words,
HORATIO	Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
Second Clown	Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
	[Enter the PRINCE and Attendants]
	And that my master slew him.
	Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
JULIET	Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
	The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
	[Enter a Servant]
	The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
	And thank us for your trouble.
	Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
KING LEAR	An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.
	pronounced:
HELENA	Is this the way?
BALTHASAR	It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
ROMEO	And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
ACT III
KING	All is whole;
	With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd;
	and much fool may you find in you, even to the
Fool	Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
	ROMEO AND JULIET
BURGUNDY	I know no answer.
	of fourteen; I have known thee already.
MERCUTIO	Any man that can write may answer a letter.
LORD POLONIUS	[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
	It could not move thus.
	Came more and more and fought on part and part,
	In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
	Which thou dost glare with!
	shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
	Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
KING	Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
KING LEAR	And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
GREGORY	No, marry; I fear thee!
HAMLET	Who is to be buried in't?
EDMUND	Never, my lord: but I have heard him oft
	Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
KING LEAR	Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
	Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
	Days and nights has thirty-one
	If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
	I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
LAERTES	Have at you now!
	Would with his daughter speak, commands her service:
LORD POLONIUS	                  Marry, sir, here's my drift;
	Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
	This unprevailing woe, and think of us
	As if it some impartment did desire
	With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
	KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners; Captain,
DIANA	He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so,
	To hear him so inclined.
Fool	Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
	Follow my mother.
	If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
	The shame which here it suffers.
	Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
	To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
	The apparition comes: I knew your father;
	Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
	Of the last monarchy,--see that you come
	is something musty.
	present at his examination: if he do not, for the
	Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
KING CLAUDIUS	There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
	a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
	noble gentleman, Edmund?
	Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
	To youth and liberty.
	Desire him to go in; trouble him no more
	Christian burial.
	Lay comforts to your bosom; and bestow
	A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest
	She will beshrew me much that Romeo
GLOUCESTER	I shall, my liege.
HAMLET	I'll be with you straight go a little before.
	If on my credit you dare build so far
	good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose
	That good effects may spring from words of love.
	The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
	And all the honours that can fly from us
	Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
	MACBETH
COUNTESS	Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
	MACBETH
	[Exit]
PAROLLES	Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
	the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
PAROLLES	Ay, so I say.
	That the proportion both of thanks and payment
	[Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
	Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
DIANA	Let death and honesty
LADY CAPULET	Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
	more, a hundred of them.
	Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
	For I come hither arm'd against myself:
	A fox, when one has caught her,
	[Enter a Messenger]
	Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
	I have been feasting with mine enemy,
	I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
	You do unbend your noble strength, to think
	(First Murderer:)
ROMEO	Whose house?
HAMLET	O, I die, Horatio;
	[Exit]
	They kill us for their sport.
	I have my wish.
CORNWALL	Bind fast his corky arms.
	and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
	As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Denied me to come in--return, and force
DIANA	That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
	For I the ballad will repeat,
First Clown	For none, neither.
	As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
	The man that makes his toe
	Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
	When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
ALBANY	Knows he the wickedness?
	Upon his death?
HELENA	And you, monarch!
	For that is her demand, and know her business?
GUILDENSTERN	But these cannot I command to any utterance of
HAMLET	She well instructs me.
Second Clown	'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
	Or bid me go into a new-made grave
	Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
	[Exeunt]
Clown	O Lord, sir! Thick, thick, spare not me.
	Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
MACBETH	To-morrow, as he purposes.
	Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage,
	So, fare you well.
	The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
ROSS	And Duncan's horses--a thing most strange and certain--
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Let her come in.
	And could of men distinguish, her election
Second Murderer	He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
LORD POLONIUS	At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
	For the ingredients of our cauldron.
BERTRAM	I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
SCENE I	A churchyard.
	Why this same strict and most observant watch
Doctor	Ay, my good lord; your royal preparation
	That all the world shall--I will do such things,--
	Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
	Of all the gentry: there is Siward's son,
First Clown	What is he that builds stronger than either the
	To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
	So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
	Upon our kingdom: if, on the tenth day following,
	Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
HELENA	Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
Clown	Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he
	Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
	of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
	[Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire]
	Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
MACBETH	There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried
GUILDENSTERN	In what, my dear lord?
BERNARDO	Long live the king!
MERCUTIO	Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
ROMEO	For your broken shin.
	kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
	[Exeunt]
	Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
COUNTESS	You have discharged this honestly; keep it to
GONERIL	Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
	Let every man be master of his time
GLOUCESTER	Then, prithee, get thee gone: if, for my sake,
REGAN	                  O, sir, you are old.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  Did he receive you well?
	To such as love not sorrow; but another,
	Be fear'd of doing harm: make your own purpose,
	[Exeunt all but EDGAR]
MACDUFF	Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
GLOUCESTER	Pursue him, ho! Go after.
	What mean these masterless and gory swords
ACT III
	Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
JULIET	Ay me!
	And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
	That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
	if you do stir abroad, go armed.
	Is not this something more than fantasy?
	And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks,
	the ditch-dog; drinks the green mantle of the
	To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
OSWALD	Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
PAGE	[Aside]  I am almost afraid to stand alone
	To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.
	serve the world for no honest use; therefore you
HAMLET	O, throw away the worser part of it,
	[Tucket within]
HORATIO	There's no offence, my lord.
	But even then the morning cock crew loud,
ACT IV
HAMLET	Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
	Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
SCENE III	The Duke of Albany's palace.
ROMEO	As if that name,
	an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there
	[Exeunt]
	In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
	As we shall make our griefs and clamour roar
	Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
GLOUCESTER	Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
	(Messenger:)
GLOUCESTER	There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
COUNTESS	With very much content, my lord; and I wish it
	Which I will over-pay and pay again
PAROLLES	Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
	Out of the shot and danger of desire.
	My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
	a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
	traitors too; in her they are the better for their
	But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Nurse	Even or odd, of all days in the year,
	With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
PAROLLES	I shall report it so.
	[Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES]
	prediction; there's son against father: the king
	conceived against your son, there is no fitter
	Which but attends thy naming.
	As I intended, for it wrought on her
	Of his profession, that his good receipt
BANQUO	So I lose none
	And vanish'd from our sight.
	they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
	[Dies]
GUILDENSTERN	|
	With an entreaty, herein further shown,
LORD POLONIUS	By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
HAMLET	The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
	For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
	If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
	tender, and they'll be for the flowery way that
GUILDENSTERN	Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
	say they are Persian attire: but let them be changed.
OPHELIA	Madam, I wish it may.
	Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
	In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
	the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn
HORATIO	Be ruled; you shall not go.
LAFEU	To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
HELENA	Ay, madam.
	But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
	And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
	To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
	All by the name of dogs: the valued file
	With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
	They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
Second Servant	Ay, boy, ready.
	We do require them of you, so to use them
	standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to
	By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
	Into the service of the time and was
MENTEITH	The wood of Birnam.
	Through your dominions for this enterprise,
	justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
	Than is his use.
	I would the fool were married to her grave!
	[Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool]
	thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
	To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
	I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
	And keep you in the rear of your affection,
	But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
	To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
	And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
KENT	Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
	The wood began to move.
	Against their father, fool me not so much
	There 's nothing serious in mortality:
JULIET	Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
	comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
ACT III
	They are free men, but I am banished.
	Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
	An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth!
Page	Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
HORATIO	You will lose this wager, my lord.
	When it is mingled with regards that stand
EDGAR	To who, my lord? Who hath the office? send
	Come, go, good Juliet,
BANQUO	To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?
	And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
	[Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN]
	Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
	That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
	they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
HAMLET	Who, I?
	Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
	It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
LAFEU	I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to
	To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
	Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him!
	Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
EDGAR	Draw thy sword,
COUNTESS	Parolles, was it not?
	workman, a very good tailor.
	thou wast born with.
	And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
	Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
	He gave it to a commoner o' the camp,
	That to our sister you do make return;
Gentleman	She is importunate, indeed distract:
	I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
CAPULET	|
	mind's free,
	The bell then beating one,--
	For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,
	Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
	Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
MALCOLM	Well; more anon.--Comes the king forth, I pray you?
	What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
	Is it not well? What should you need of more?
	de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
MONTAGUE	Both by myself and many other friends:
	To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
	I loved your father, and we love ourself;
	Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
	It is enough I may but call her mine.
	O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
	The county will be here with music straight,
	With his inducement.
	adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
	Within the centre.
	I loved her most, and thought to set my rest
HELENA	                  Good madam, pardon me!
Porter	Here's a knocking indeed! If a
	Led him, begg'd for him, saved him from despair;
	Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
	A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
	So shall you share all that he doth possess,
	I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall
	The violence of either grief or joy
Third Witch	A drum, a drum!
	has a knot on't yet
	He labour'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
	Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Old Man	Threescore and ten I can remember well:
ROMEO	     My dear?
	Almost to acknowledge hers.
	The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
	Of her awaking, here untimely lay
ACT III
	Should in the furthest east begin to draw
	When well-apparell'd April on the heel
	Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
HAMLET	I could interpret between you and your love, if I
	[Enter Ghost]
	How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
	[Enter MACDUFF and LENNOX]
	'Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
	And in this state she gallops night by night
	your ladyship's good will to go to the world, Isbel
	Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
ROMEO	I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now
ROMEO	Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
BERTRAM	I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in
	Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;
	Of my obscured course; and shall find time
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O, speak to me no more;
HAMLET	No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
MACDUFF	No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
	Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
PRINCE	Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
	Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
LAERTES	Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
Second Witch	Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
	Be brief in it, to the castle; for my writ
	draws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.
	Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
	I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
	Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
	That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
	And yet I know him a notorious liar,
Second Witch	Killing swine.
	hand. Oh, oh, oh!
BENVOLIO	Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
	I will bestow him, and will answer well
REGAN	And false.
	HAMLET
	On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
	three and twenty years.
	They are but beggars that can count their worth;
	Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
	By your eyes' anguish.
LORD POLONIUS	What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
ROSENCRANTZ	Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
	I departed not and left him there.
	And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
	HAMLET
	you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
	It is my will, the which if thou respect,
KING CLAUDIUS	Dead.
HORATIO	Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
	My master, my dear lord he is; and I
SCENE	Verona: Mantua.
	And frustrate his proud will.
ROSENCRANTZ	How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
ROSENCRANTZ	He does confess he feels himself distracted;
	yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
Gentlewoman	Good night, good doctor.
Second Lord	He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
	[Re-enter GLOUCESTER]
	And know themselves and you.
MACBETH	A friend.
	rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.
	my course of loyalty, though the conflict be sore
	And I will do it without fear or doubt,
	revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
	[Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors,
	To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
COUNTESS	Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
	merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
	[Exit]
	A precious ring, a ring that I must use
	with me till they meet together.
LAFEU	I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
	I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
	Upon my hateful life: another way,
	A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
	That dotage gives it.
	I can be patient; I can stay with Regan,
	[Exit]
	With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
Second Witch	Cool it with a baboon's blood,
	this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
	The most you sought was her promotion;
	God send her quickly!
	does well; but how does it well? it does well to
	Which steals itself, when there's no mercy left.
	They could not, would not do 't; 'tis worse than murder,
	sought for, in the great chamber.
	his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
	'You shall demand of him, whether one Captain Dumain
SCENE I	GLOUCESTER's castle.
DUNCAN	O valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!
	Upon a dwarfish thief.
	Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
	And where the worser is predominant,
	That made you break this enterprise to me?
	The effect of what I wrote?
	I am afraid to think what I have done;
	when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
	Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
	To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
	That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
	I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
	HAMLET
	Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
KING	Methought you said
	[Enter ROSS and an old Man]
	Catch in their fury, and make nothing of;
MERCUTIO	'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
	proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
BERTRAM	Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
	have perceived a most faint neglect of late; which I
	distress in my similes of comfort and leave him to
BERTRAM	All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
KING	What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
	From over-credulous haste: but God above
	Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
	How now! where's the king?
	Suspecting that we both were in a house
GUILDENSTERN	A thing, my lord!
	Unreal mockery, hence!
SAMPSON	Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
	O cousin, cousin!
	Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
	[Enter Apothecary]
	But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
JULIET	It may be so, for it is not mine own.
	some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
	is that he will steal himself into a man's favour and
Porter	'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
	And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
	The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
	clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him
EDMUND	Thou, nature, art my goddess; to thy law
QUEEN GERTRUDE	This is mere madness:
	Meeting were bare without it.
Clown	I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have
	Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
DIANA	daughter to the Widow.
FRIAR LAURENCE	O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
	The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
All	We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
	Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
ROSS	Well, I will thither.
	KING LEAR
LENNOX	My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
	She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
	which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
	by wearing his apparel neatly.
BENVOLIO	Good-morrow, cousin.
	This man shall set me packing:
JULIET	Madam, I am here.
	Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
Fool	Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
	Religious in mine error, I adore
Son	He has kill'd me, mother:
HAMLET	I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
KING	Come hither, count; do you know these women?
Second Lord	O, 'tis brave wars!
First Soldier	Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
	given, she's very well and wants nothing i', the
	Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
	MACBETH
	The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
	At my poor house look to behold this night
	Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
	Of the self-same metal that my sister is,
EDGAR	Now fare you well, good sir.
MACDUFF	Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
	I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave
First Clown	How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
MACBETH	Call 'em; let me see 'em.
		                  How now, Oswald!
	Who cannot want the thought how monstrous
GONERIL	Say, if I do, the laws are mine, not thine:
CORDELIA	The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
	Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
	and, upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
	supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
	Call not your stocks for me: I serve the king;
QUEEN GERTRUDE	The lady protests too much, methinks.
	Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
	Of treasonous malice.
CORNWALL	Bind him, I say.
	And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
	His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
	thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
	I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
	Let Hercules himself do what he may,
	Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
	More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
	[Exit]
	One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
	Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
EDMUND	What you have charged me with, that have I done;
	[Re-enter Clown]
DONALBAIN	To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
	Whose hearts are absent too.
	The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?
	And live a coward in thine own esteem,
	charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
SEYTON	It is the cry of women, my good lord.
	They'll mar my counterfeiting.
	That he which hath your noble father slain
	Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
	Leaving free things and happy shows behind:
	Yet never know how that desert should be.
	The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
	But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
MACBETH	We will proceed no further in this business:
	badness in himself.
	card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
	Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
	For food and diet, to some enterprise
	Speak, Edmund, where's the king? and where's Cordelia?
LAFEU	Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon.
	kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
	Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
	sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
MERCUTIO	Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
	MACBETH
	Art not without ambition, but without
JULIET	O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
KING CLAUDIUS	So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
JULIET	Nurse?
	O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
	I could not but by her. The other motive,
	Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
	My oath, and my profession: I protest,
	If circumstances lead me, I will find
	His grace is at Marseilles; to which place
EDGAR	You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
	A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man:
	There's place and means for every man alive.
LADY MACDUFF	Why, the honest men.
	before the report come. If there be breadth enough
	Do I impart toward you. For your intent
	|  In that and all things will we show our duty.
	What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
	But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
BANQUO	O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
	The pith and marrow of our attribute.
KENT	A sovereign shame so elbows him: his own unkindness,
	Being held a foe, he may not have access
	The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
	The lass I spoke of.
	natural, if philosophy could find it out.
	As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
	'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
MONTAGUE	I neither know it nor can learn of him.
	[Exeunt]
PAROLLES	What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
	Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
	The ring was never hers.
	For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
	And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,--
ACT IV
EDMUND	The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
	And take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers,
Gentleman	Alack, poor gentleman!
Prologue	     For us, and for our tragedy,
	[Enter KENT]
		Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
	Most serpent-like, upon the very heart:
KING LEAR	This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so,
	Have at thee, coward!
First Soldier	You are a merciful general. Our general bids you
KING LEAR	Come let's in all.
	runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with
	And our affairs from England come too late:
	Your leave and favour to return to France;
	And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
	the fury of his heart, when the foul fiend rages,
EDGAR	[Aside]	How should this be?
	one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we
	But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
	Against the which, a moiety competent
	gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
	Decline your head: this kiss, if it durst speak,
MACBETH	Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
	That memory, the warder of the brain,
LADY CAPULET	O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
REYNALDO	Well, my lord.
	daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
Herald	Again!
	Sepulchring an adultress.
	What to ourselves in passion we propose,
	Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
SCENE III	England. Before the King's palace.
	Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
	May all the building in my fancy pluck
	[Enter HAMLET and HORATIO]
	hare-lip; mildews the white wheat, and hurts the
	Upon the foot of motion.
KING CLAUDIUS	Thanks, dear my lord.
	And the remainder, that shall still depend,
KENT	If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
	First, give me trust, the count he is my husband,
	Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
	That which you are my thoughts cannot transpose:
	In all her best array bear her to church:
BANQUO	All's well.
	And I had that which any inferior might
	He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
	Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
	pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
	You owe me no subscription: then let fall
	Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
	Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
	Which can interpret further: only, I say,
HORATIO	It beckons you to go away with it,
	To the last syllable of recorded time,
SCENE II	Another room in the castle.
REGAN	Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.
	On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
	mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
	Thou must be patient; we came crying hither:
	Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
	To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
	We'll teach you--
MACBETH	That will never be
	I would have made them skip: I am old now,
	Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
BERTRAM	Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
	It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
	might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
HELENA	O, were that all! I think not on my father;
	Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
	O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
	I will have such revenges on you both,
	him for me, he's more and more a cat.
	[They fight]
LORD POLONIUS	Well be with you, gentlemen!
	When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
	eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
	Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
	That they do know my son, come you more nearer
	[Drawing his sword]
	And makes each petty artery in this body
	Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
	elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
	Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
	Upon whose property and most dear life
LAFEU	A fistula, my lord.
	lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
	Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull
	not in the contents.
	speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
	[Exit]
	PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets]
	To say I have done no harm?
	Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Third Witch	Show!
	Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
YOUNG SIWARD	The devil himself could not pronounce a title
	fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
	In seeking to augment it, but still keep
	Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
	gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
Second Lord	Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night,
	What is not holy, that we swear not by,
	And all those twenty could but kill one life.
ACT V
ALBANY	He is not here.
	But it reserved some quantity of choice,
	Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
	To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
	HAMLET
	[Tearing off his clothes]
	the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
	[QUEEN GERTRUDE falls]
	The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
	that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
	He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
MACBETH	O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
	[Exit GLOUCESTER]
	That ministers thine own death if I die.
	She and the duke her husband!
JULIET	Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
	The natural fool of fortune. Use me well;
Clown	So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does:
	And thou shalt have more
	Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
LADY CAPULET	We follow thee.
	[Offering KENT his cap]
	To you they have show'd some truth.
LORD POLONIUS	Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
	And madly play with my forefather's joints?
KENT	Nor tripped neither, you base football player.
ROSENCRANTZ	The single and peculiar life is bound,
	[Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO]
	His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
MACDUFF	O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
	We are yet but young in deed.
	to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
	Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
REGAN	Fare thee well.
	[Exeunt]
	Be not familiar with her.
	Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
JULIET	What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
	virgins might blow up men?
	Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
	Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
	Nor thine on me.
	I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
	unmannerly.
EDGAR	Here comes Kent.
KING LEAR	How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
	Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, breath,
	Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
CORDELIA	Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
	towards you: I have told you what I have seen
	I have forgot why I did call thee back.
	away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
	[Thunder and lightning. Enter three Witches]
	[Re-enter EDMUND]
	If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
	In obstinate condolement is a course
	A double blessing is a double grace,
BERTRAM	Your brother he shall go along with me.
	And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
	and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
	To him from whom you brought them.
	[Enter YOUNG SIWARD]
	If only to go warm were gorgeous,
	But sadly tell me who.
	was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
	[pausing]
	Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
	Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
KING	Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
	MACBETH
	As did that one, and that, in my regard,
HAMLET	Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
	That copest with death himself to scape from it:
	I'll prove it on thy heart,
	Out of his lunacies.
	rash; then must we look to receive from his age,
LAERTES	Ay, my lord;
	In hell-black night endured, would have buoy'd up,
	Hark! Peace!
	go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect
MACDUFF	I am not treacherous.
	That you express content; which we will pay,
	My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
HAMLET	You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
	And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
	But I do wash his name out of my blood,
	Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
CAPULET	Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
	Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
	That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
COUNTESS	You need but plead your honourable privilege.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	To whom do you speak this?
	Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot,
	[Enter Nurse]
	little: he always loved our sister most; and
	[Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant]
ROMEO	In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
	Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
HORATIO	He waxes desperate with imagination.
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man]
	Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
KENT	Is this the promised end
MACBETH	Where?
COUNTESS	So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much
	That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Player Queen	O, confound the rest!
	I had most need of blessing, and 'Amen'
	One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
HAMLET	Why he more than another?
	Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
PAROLLES	Why, there 'tis; so say I too.
	[Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,
	No son of mine succeeding. If 't be so,
	Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
KING	Praising what is lost
	There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound,
	Fall on thy head! Farewell, my lord;
MERCUTIO	And so did I.
Nurse	Ay, forsooth.
Clown	Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
	And take the present horror from the time,
	stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
MACBETH	The rest is labour, which is not used for you:
HAMLET	My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
	should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
	Been struck so to the soul that presently
SCENE VI	Friar Laurence's cell.
	If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
GLOUCESTER	Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
	another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
	So 'tis our will he should.
	In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
	And to imperial Love, that god most high,
	very night.
	Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
	That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
	You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
	laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
ROMEO	What shall I swear by?
	Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
	white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
	When now I think you can behold such sights,
	it no further: I had thought to have let in
Nurse	Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
ROSS	I have said.
	[Enter SEYTON]
MACBETH	Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
	But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
	If they not thought the profits of my death
	Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
	With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Ay, amen!
CAPULET	Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
	Into her womb convey sterility!
	Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
	The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;
COUNTESS	Do you love my son?
Both Murderers	We are resolved, my lord.
	play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
KING LEAR	[To GONERIL]  Detested kite! thou liest.
	Make it their walk.
	Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
	I have forgot him: my imagination
	As low as to the fiends!'
	Was this upon myself: what I am truly,
	Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
	From the murderer's gibbet throw
SCENE II	Another part of the heath. Storm still.
	|
	O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
ACT V
BERTRAM	I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
	at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
	Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
KING LEAR	Why?
LADY MACBETH	Come on;
CAPULET	Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
	Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
GONERIL	[Aside]              One way I like this well;
	Call, good Mercutio.
	which gentlemen have.
	But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
	For and a shrouding sheet:
ROMEO	I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
	The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
	'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
MARCELLUS	[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
	The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
	This shameful lodging.
	Your high displeasure: all this uttered
	on my back forty eight.
	[Exeunt]
	on he has the cramp.
	Which they distil now in the curbed time,
	I prithee, put them off.
	As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
GLOUCESTER	Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
	Could not so mope.
KENT	With the earl, sir, here within.
KENT	I cannot conceive you.
	Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
	Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET,
	I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
HAMLET	Is't possible?
Nurse	Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
LORD POLONIUS	And let him ply his music.
	As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
EDMUND	In wisdom I should ask thy name;
	Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
	As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
HAMLET	No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
Nurse	The son and heir of old Tiberio.
	[Enter KING LEAR, Fool, and Gentleman]
	He will again be well: if much you note him,
	Or else worth all the rest; I see thee still,
	Doubt truth to be a liar;
	And threatened me with death, going in the vault,
	How now! are the horses ready?
	If you dare venture in your own behalf,
CAPULET	But saying o'er what I have said before:
		 I dare no longer stay.
	For men so old as we to keep the peace.
	The question of Cordelia and her father
	[Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
	altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
	Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
	And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
	not have made him so ill, though he had been but two
Old Man	Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
	To the dark house and the detested wife.
KENT	Good my liege,--
ROSS	Well too.
EDGAR	What means that bloody knife?
GUILDENSTERN	I know no touch of it, my lord.
MACDUFF	Turn, hell-hound, turn!
	metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost
	To shield thee from diseases of the world;
SCENE II	A room of state in the castle.
	An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
	For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
ROMEO	Why, such is love's transgression.
	And look on death itself! up, up, and see
	It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
SIWARD	He's worth no more
	this pipe?
KING CLAUDIUS	                  What is the cause, Laertes,
	O true apothecary!
EDMUND	I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
	man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
	Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
	Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
	And soar with them above a common bound.
	Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
	When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
	Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
	I should have been more strange, I must confess,
	[Exeunt]
	Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
	Where our desire is got without content:
JULIET	O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
	I know you do not love me; for your sisters
	[Exit Servant]
ROMEO	One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
	So crimeful and so capital in nature,
	Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers
JULIET	'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:
	Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
	Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
EDMUND	I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
	But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
	And sundry blessings hang about his throne,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	I doubt it is no other but the main;
CAPULET	Young Romeo is it?
KING LEAR	You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
	But in battalions. First, her father slain:
	but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
	What is your study?
	with a tree in his hand]
	To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
	Bring me but to the very brim of it,
HELENA	a gentlewoman protected by the Countess.
GREGORY	Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
	Your graces are right welcome.
	Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
	did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
	Christian burial.
	Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
PAROLLES	I have not, my lord, deserved it.
	And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
	[Enter KENT]
	Would I not leap upright.
	That hath deprived me of your grace and favour;
ALBANY	                  Great thing of us forgot!
	Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
	That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
	[Enter LAFEU]
	But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
	And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
SCENE III	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	[Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, and Attendants]
	Which, too much minded by herself alone,
	To be the same in thine own act and valour
	Or manage it to part these men with me.
	Our means will make us means.
	His nighted life: moreover, to descry
	[Re-enter Knight]
LADY MACDUFF	Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
ACT IV
	In an imperial charge. But I shall crave
	were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
	it were his; but, in respect of that, I would
	When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
HAMLET	What call you the carriages?
	Which craves the instant use.
EDGAR	I was forbid it.
	[Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER and KENT]
	In England and in Ireland, not confessing
	[Exit]
COUNTESS	Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
	She shall be married to this noble earl.
GONERIL	This is practise, Gloucester:
BERNARDO	Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
	I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
	Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
HAMLET	Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
	Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
	Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
	So distribution should undo excess,
	And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as you
	(Messenger:)
	Follow'd his enemy king, and did him service
MACDUFF	What's the disease he means?
	be what they are, there were no fear in marriage;
	Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
	I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
	but by a metaphor.
	Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
First Clown	It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
	Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
	Dismissing half your train, come then to me:
COUNTESS	In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
	[Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers]
	Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
GUILDENSTERN	Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
	in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
	Juliet, the county stays.
	That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
First Lord	He's very near the truth in this.
LADY MONTAGUE	Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
HAMLET	We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
	This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
LADY CAPULET	What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
	Winner and loser?
	To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
	Of mine own eyes.
JULIET	As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
MALCOLM	He's worth more sorrow,
KENT	Here is the place, my lord; good my lord, enter:
	As little is the wisdom, where the flight
	In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
	ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
BERTRAM	I know thou'rt valiant; and, to the possibility of
	The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me,
	flesh ye; come on, young master.
	For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
	Upon thy foul disease. Revoke thy doom;
	ROMEO AND JULIET
KENT	Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My
KING LEAR	No, lad; teach me.
KING CLAUDIUS	We will try it.
	[Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES]
	be patient; there is no fettering of authority.
	Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
	for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
	We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
Gentlewoman	Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen
	Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
	Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
	Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
	Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
GLOUCESTER	The trick of that voice I do well remember:
	LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant]
	[Exeunt]
	He will return; and hope I may that she,
	KING LEAR
	Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
	Each minute teems a new one.
HORATIO	Not I, my lord, by heaven.
	Nothing in love: now does he feel his title
BANQUO	Were such things here as we do speak about?
	'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
	Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land:
	all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor;' by which title,
	Than on the torture of the mind to lie
	I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
	His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
HAMLET	Ecstasy!
	Environed with all these hideous fears?
	A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
	We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
First Witch	Pour in sow's blood, that hath eaten
	apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
	Hadst not been born than not to have pleased me better.
MACBETH	What is 't you say? the life?
	Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
	practises he hath persecuted time with hope, and
First Servant	Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
LADY MACBETH	O, never
	And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
	tongues else for's turn.
	But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
	And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!
MERCUTIO	Where the devil should this Romeo be?
	to think!--
KING CLAUDIUS	          Gertrude, do not drink.
	The night is long that never finds the day.
	That in the natures of their lords rebel;
	Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
LAFEU	He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
DUNCAN	Give me your hand;
	Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou
Servant	Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
	and GUILDENSTERN]
	So all men do, from hence to the palace gate
	That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace,
	The winged vengeance overtake such children.
	mar.
	And makest conjectural fears to come into me
	Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
KING CLAUDIUS	Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
	And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
HELENA	                  But will you make it even?
	Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
	Now, out of this,--
	the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
HELENA	I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
	Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
	Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
MACBETH	Liar and slave!
	And fortune led you well: you have the captives
KENT	A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a
	me like a dog; and told me I had white hairs in my
BENVOLIO	It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
	Let the rest go.
	As may compact it more. Get you gone;
	Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
	With them they think on? Things without all remedy
HAMLET	son to the late, and nephew to the present king.
MACBETH	Cure her of that.
	So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
First Servant	You are looked for and called for, asked for and
FRIAR LAURENCE	Not in a grave,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
	So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
	[Exeunt all but HAMLET]
	Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
	To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
	I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell:
	[Enter MACDUFF]
	Help me, help me!
	The mysteries of Hecate, and the night;
	For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind;
	[GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes]
KING LEAR	Thou hast her, France: let her be thine; for we
	Thy life's a miracle. Speak yet again.
	Enchanting all that you put in.
	'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
	[Drinks]
	henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering.
	That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
Son	Who must hang them?
	In the unlawful purpose.
	[Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS]
	For certain friends that are both his and mine,
First Murderer	He's a traitor.
	[Exit Widow]
	[Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD]
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
	[Enter HELENA]
HAMLET	Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
	A most miraculous work in this good king;
	And ask'd thee mercy for't.
	To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
	[Exit, guarded]
	[Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window]
ACT I
	'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
	Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
	Retain that dear perfection which he owes
First Lord	But I am sure the younger of our nature,
	I will advise you where to plant yourselves;
	would vouchsafe the answer.
	Dying or ere they sicken.
KENT	                  It is both he and she;
	for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
	Raze out the written troubles of the brain
	Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
	Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
	list of too cold an adieu: be more expressive to
HAMLET	Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
	To stand auspicious mistress,--
HAMLET	I mean, my head upon your lap?
	Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
	[Reads]
	fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath
	Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
GLOUCESTER	[Reads]  'This policy and reverence of age makes
	Life and death! I am ashamed
	And with presented nakedness out-face
GLOUCESTER	Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
	You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
	That will speak any thing?
	And my imaginations are as foul
FRANCISCO	Give you good night.
	And, sister, as the winds give benefit
	but fare you well.
KING LEAR	Ha!
LAERTES	O, fear me not.
GUILDENSTERN:	|
	Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
	To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
	May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
	Shall I send to thee?
	After the thing it loves.
	I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;
	Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
	I am for the air; this night I'll spend
	Touches us not with pity.
	But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
	bluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I am
KING	I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
	The victory fell on us.
	You have some cause, they have not.
	As therein are set down.
	[EDMUND is borne off]
	recantation.
	Where you have never come, or sent it us
	your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
	seek him; I'll apprehend him: abominable villain!
	offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
QUEEN GERTRUDE	There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
BALTHASAR	I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
	If I could bear it longer, and not fall
	What place this is; and all the skill I have
CURAN	a courtier.
	Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
	corrupt him to revolt.' What say you to this? what
	And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
	And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
KENT	Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences:
	For in a minute there are many days:
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, was your father dear to you?
MERCUTIO	Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
	but a provoking merit, set a-work by a reprovable
	You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
	Out, varlet, from my sight!
	That chambers will be safe.
HELENA	That I am not.
	May be my friends. He's dead; I am only sorry
	Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
	An old Widow of Florence. (Widow:)
	comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
	Before my daughter told me--what might you,
REGAN	No marvel, then, though he were ill affected:
	Even with the very comment of thy soul
	upon your traitorous father are not fit for your
	The tedious day with sleep.
	At his heels a stone.
HAMLET	Who commands them, sir?
	true,--or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
	They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
	Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
HAMLET	I do not think so: since he went into France, I
	Thus much the business is: we have here writ
	A sleeping potion; which so took effect
BANQUO	How goes the night, boy?
PAROLLES	Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
	Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
	Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
KENT	None.
	language you will: though you understand it not
	weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
	With sore distraction. What I have done,
	Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
	And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pain.
	palaces, treason; and the bond cracked 'twixt son
	Like valour's minion carved out his passage
	safely be admitted.
KING LEAR	What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
	heavenly compulsion; knaves, thieves, and
	Do more than this in sport. Father, father!
	His silver skin laced with his golden blood;
	He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
	Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'd
GLOUCESTER	Here is better than the open air; take it
	[Exeunt]
	And let mischance be slave to patience.
	must show fairly outward, should more appear like
LAFEU	Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you
Nurse	Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
	I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
LAERTES	My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
Second Lord	Good my lord,
	Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom;
	slip-shod.
ALBANY	See thyself, devil!
ACT III
	Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Second Clown	But is this law?
HELENA	[To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
LORD POLONIUS	It shall do well: but yet do I believe
	To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
LADY MACBETH	Infirm of purpose!
	[Noise within]
	Unfriended, new-adopted to our hate,
HAMLET	Well, God-a-mercy.
	As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
	but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
	walking and other actual performances, what, at any
	I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff,
	[Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA,
SCENE II	Before Gloucester's castle.
	lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to
	Drawn with a team of little atomies
ROMEO	I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
	Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
LADY CAPULET	The people in the street cry Romeo,
	Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
	Did lack a parallel; yet for all that
REYNALDO	I will, my lord.
	By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
	But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
	In every point twice done and then done double
BERTRAM	She's none of mine, my lord.
MALCOLM	I grant him bloody,
	Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
	Your business was more welcome.
	poor king her father.
	Thy gory locks at me.
	Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
	Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
KENT	Pardon me, dear madam;
	time gives it proof. I did love you once.
	His master thus.
First Gentleman	Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
	[Exit]
	And we cast away moan:
GUILDENSTERN	My honoured lord!
	I have spoken better of you than you have or will to
	dial is now upon the prick of noon.
OSWALD	Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
	themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends,
	[Enter OSWALD]
HAMLET	Judgment.
	generally thankful.
	Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
JULIET	Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
	Those tender limbs of thine to the event
	To call hers exquisite, in question more:
	way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my
	Then music with her silver sound'--
First Lord	O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
GUILDENSTERN	We will ourselves provide:
	Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
	All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
	No, no, he is dead:
COUNTESS	Nothing in France, until he have no wife!
	Seem to me all the uses of this world!
	And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
ROMEO	At the hour of nine.
Gentleman	The Marshal of France, Monsieur La Far.
HAMLET	I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
GONERIL	Come, sir,
ROSS	Would I could answer
	Lend less than thou owest,
Gentleman	Ay, madam; in the heaviness of his sleep
	What do you read, my lord?
	But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
	And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
	Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
ACT IV
	What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
	But, true it is, from France there comes a power
	Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife;
	To change the course: he's full of alteration
	To his unmaster'd importunity.
LAERTES	son to Polonius.
	My practises ride easy! I see the business.
	What company, at what expense; and finding
COUNTESS	A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
	We beg your hearing patiently.
	Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
HAMLET	Nay, I know not.
	Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
	Reign in this kingdom?
MERCUTIO	Could you not take some occasion without giving?
	An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
	Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
	And Regan with him: have you nothing said
	Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
Gentleman	Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
	With windlasses and with assays of bias,
	he says he has a stratagem for't: when your
KING LEAR	O, vassal! miscreant!
		Wherefore was that cry?
	For where there is advantage to be given,
	Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
JULIET	O think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
Messenger	Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
	virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
	O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
ALL	Hail, King of Scotland!
LORD POLONIUS	Away, I do beseech you, both away:
	Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
	Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
EDMUND	                  Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true;
	Doting like me and like me banished,
	Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
	duke's brother.
HAMLET	No, by this hand.
	That vulture in you, to devour so many
	That palter with us in a double sense;
	This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
PAROLLES	Thirty fathom.
	[Exeunt]
	For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
	And with thy bloody and invisible hand
	look, a mouse! Peace, peace; this piece of toasted
LADY CAPULET	Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
	be born under Mars.
LORD POLONIUS	'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
HAMLET	And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
	By the law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
	[Enter JULIET]
BENVOLIO	He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
Second Lord	His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
JULIET	But to be frank, and give it thee again.
	Look you, these are the stops.
	tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
	Inform on that.
	Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
	No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
	Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
	Excite the mortified man.
	[Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following]
	Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
	For every man has business and desire,
	And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
	him truly that will put me in trust: to love him
	If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
	[A trumpet sounds]
EDMUND	That's my fear. I pray you, have a continent
	As this I would: ay, though thou didst produce
	the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
	It is thy business that I go about;
	Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
	To let this canker of our nature come
SCENE I	Forres. The palace.
	Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
	Must render up myself.
	and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
	When first they put the name of king upon me,
	convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
	eats cow-dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and
MARCELLUS	                  We have sworn, my lord, already.
	[Enter GLOUCESTER]
	Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
	Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
	We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
	Or thrive by other means.
	Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, count;
	That thus he suffers for.
	peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
	[Exit Murderer]
		   Hark! more knocking.
KING LEAR	No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, and
	Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
	that every braggart shall be found an ass.
DIANA	I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
	More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
	uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
	do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
	and of very liberal conceit.
PAROLLES	O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
	Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
	Attend the true event, and put we on
	In youth, when I did love, did love,
	Your lady's love against some other maid
Second Servant	Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam
	That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
	Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
	no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! here's three on
	Only she comes too short: that I profess
	With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
	With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
	for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but
	The origin and commencement of his grief
	Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off,
HAMLET	He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
GLOUCESTER	Grace go with you, sir!
	May justly diet me. I pray you yet;
	And find your grace in health.
	Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
MACBETH	No, nor more fearful.
	[Enter EDGAR]
HORATIO	Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
	But know I think and think I know most sure
REGAN	Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
	And the place death, considering who thou art,
	Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,
	To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
	I know not how to tell thee who I am:
	That it might please you to give quiet pass
ROMEO	Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
	Allows itself to any thing.
JULIET	I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
	do you know of it?
	lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
HORATIO	|
	Richer than that which four successive kings
	Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
	Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
	[Exeunt]
	In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee;
	[Enters the tomb]
	And she must not speak
	O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
	May be the amorous count solicits her
BERNARDO	It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
KING CLAUDIUS	                  How may we try it further?
	yield them,
KING LEAR	A bitter fool!
	[Exit OSWALD]
	I have no relish of them, but abound
KING LEAR	Then leave her, sir; for, by the power that made me,
	Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
	Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
	Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
	For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name--
	question, thou hadst well deserved it.
SCENE	Denmark.
KING CLAUDIUS	Follow her close; give her good watch,
	You greet with present grace and great prediction
	Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
	Ho, you sir! friend! Hear you, sir! speak!
	Ring the alarum-bell! Blow, wind! come, wrack!
	Than terms can give thee out!
	and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and
EDMUND	So please your lordship, none.
	[They play]
KING CLAUDIUS	What dost you mean by this?
	Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
	I put myself to thy direction, and
	Led by a delicate and tender prince,
REYNALDO	Ay, my lord,
	Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will.
HECATE	Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
HORATIO	What is't, my lord? we will.
	his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
	And beat them backward home.
	The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
First Witch	Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
LAERTES	That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
REYNALDO	But, my good lord,--
	know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
	By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
	Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may 'scape,
LAERTES	What part is that, my lord?
	I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
CORNWALL	Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ,
	Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's
ROMEO	If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
	To cure the desperate languishings whereof
	blessing of God till I have issue o' my body; for
	Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
MERCUTIO	The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
	And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
	By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
	More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised;
	All is well ended, if this suit be won,
	Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Clown	|
	could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
	We shall express our duty in his eye;
	Or shall we on without a apology?
	Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
	It lifted up its head and did address
	[March within]
	The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
	this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced
	this a quarter of an hour.
PAROLLES	Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
	Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
	[Enter COUNTESS and Clown]
	'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
	Nor customary suits of solemn black,
	If you would grant the time.
LAERTES	Think it no more;
KING	I knew him.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
	Of quick, cross lightning? to watch--poor perdu!--
	Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady
	That's sorry yet for thee.
	in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
	And dotage terms so.
	The very firstlings of my heart shall be
KING CLAUDIUS	What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
ROMEO	Good morrow, father.
HAMLET	Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
ROMEO	Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
	Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
	That live and feed upon your majesty.
	[Exeunt]
	Will I with wine and wassail so convince
	I cannot tell.
	Resolve me, with all modest haste, which way
	was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
Knight	My lord, I know not what the matter is; but, to my
	But let the frame of things disjoint, both the
	gentleman or a yeoman?
	Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
REGAN	O the blest gods! so will you wish on me,
	as promising her marriage, and things which would
CORNWALL	I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
SCENE V	Capulet's orchard.
	As if she sat in 's heart; she says all men
Fool	Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to
	As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
	To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
	Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,
COUNTESS	Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
	Which do but what they should, by doing every thing
SCENE I	Marseilles. A street.
	To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
	To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
OSWALD	I may not, madam:
	endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner
KING CLAUDIUS	Will you know them then?
	Producing forth the cruel ministers
	rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
NURSE	Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
	To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
	Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
	My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd;
	modesty which is so lost.
CAPULET	How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
	You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
HAMLET	Very well, my lord
First Player	'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
	[Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND]
ROMEO	She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
	For sundry weighty reasons.
	But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
GREGORY	To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:
	Appears before them, and with solemn march
	And I'll be bid by thee.
	lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
	And like a sister am most loath to call
SCENE II	Friar Laurence's cell.
	[Exeunt]
	Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Clown	But it is your carbonadoed face.
HAMLET	Yours, yours.
	By heaven, it is as proper to our age
	What grows of it, no matter; advise your fellows so:
	A Gentleman, (Gentlemen:)
ROMEO	I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
	My dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
HAMLET	Speak; I am bound to hear.
	The table round.
	Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
	inquire further after me; I had talk of you last
	Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
	The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
	own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
	To outface me with leaping in her grave?
	I' the last night's storm I such a fellow saw;
	This weaves itself perforce into my business.
Gentleman	Most sure and vulgar: every one hears that,
	Having some business, do entreat her eyes
	Sent forth great largess to your offices.
	As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
GONERIL	By day and night he wrongs me; every hour
	I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
	like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not
	[Aside]  This supernatural soliciting
	entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed.
	And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
Second Servant	I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
	Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
	That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
	This man may help me to his majesty's ear,
KING LEAR	Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd,
	That I did kill them.
DUNCAN	king of Scotland.
	earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
SCENE IV	Paris. The KING's palace.
	Who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst.
Porter	That it did, sir, i' the very throat on
	[Enter TYBALT]
	Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
	Have so incensed that I am reckless what
	Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
	To fall and blast her pride!
	Who, with some other of the lords dependants,
	I did repel his fetters and denied
HORATIO	My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
	Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
	my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with
	Burning, scalding, stench, consumption; fie,
	digested in the scenes, set down with as much
	When all that is within him does condemn
	All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Come, let me wipe thy face.
	Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
KING	Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
	Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
	Expire before the flowers in their caps,
	May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
	The obsequies that I for thee will keep
	It strains me past the compass of my wits:
MACDUFF	Despair thy charm;
	Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
	impudent nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France
OSWALD	No, madam.
	Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
	A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
	late innovation.
	That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
HAMLET	Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
	Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
SAMPSON	Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
HAMLET	To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
	Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
	Why I descend into this bed of death,
MACBETH	Which of you have done this?
	War with mankind.
	Which, if convenience will not allow,
	Against those honours deep and broad wherewith
	not such need to hide itself. Let's see: come,
	The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
	To let you know of it.
	And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
	Upon these eyes of thine I'll set my foot.
GREGORY	The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
	[Exit]
	why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,
	them than mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire
	If it be made of penetrable stuff,
	I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
KING LEAR	Follow me not;
	What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
	My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
	Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
MACBETH	Till then, enough. Come, friends.
	excessive grief the enemy to the living.
	[They seize and blindfold him]
	Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
	[Enter a Messenger]
KING CLAUDIUS	Let's follow, Gertrude:
	which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
First Murderer	Let it come down.
	With that malignant cause wherein the honour
HELENA	What two things?
	want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
	[Exeunt]
	Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
GONERIL	Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what
KING CLAUDIUS	A very riband in the cap of youth,
	KING LEAR
	And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
	Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
	Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
	(First Clown:)
	This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
	His son was but a ward two years ago.
	And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
	Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
HAMLET	A dream itself is but a shadow.
	All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
PARIS	Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
	lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
	Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
	The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
	Stand in hard cure.
	And I am sick at heart.
	I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
	This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
First Player	What speech, my lord?
	I am worse than e'er I was.
ACT III
	[Exit]
	never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
KING CLAUDIUS	Alas, alas!
	belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
	I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE]
SCENE III	The French camp near Dover.
	What, is Horatio there?
	[Exeunt]
	Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
	kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
HAMLET	It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
LENNOX	For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
	As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
	[Tripping up his heels]
	The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
	In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
KING	What 'her' is this?
	This letter he early bid me give his father,
	Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,
PAROLLES	Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be
HAMLET	No, it is struck.
EDMUND	About it; and write happy when thou hast done.
	melancholy man.
	With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
	In deepest consequence.
	their cassocks, lest they shake themselves to pieces.
	Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
GLOUCESTER	Methinks the ground is even.
	[They fight]
	Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
	now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
	Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
ACT I
HAMLET	I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
	It may be thought we held him carelessly,
	forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
HAMLET	Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
OPHELIA	The king rises.
	lady mother I am returning; entertained my convoy;
	He was a gentleman on whom I built
	and boy, thirty years.
BANQUO	How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
	Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
BENVOLIO	Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
HAMLET	Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
	[Exit, above]
	I would not wish them to a fairer death:
	to in a month.
	Is dearest to me. I have no skill in sense
GLOUCESTER	No words, no words: hush.
	That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
	the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
	Could never plant in me.
	Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
	I pray you.
	I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
	Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
	Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
GONERIL	O vain fool!
	To a most hideous object: thence it came
	Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
BANQUO	Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
	his great right to be so: Gerard de Narbon.
	My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
	Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
	Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade!
HAMLET	'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
KENT	I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
	May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
	To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
	To this detested groom.
	Captain, and Soldiers]
MACDUFF	Fit to govern!
	Never was seen so black a day as this:
	You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
LADY MACBETH	Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
	[Enter a Gentleman, with a bloody knife]
	Where you shall hold your session. At this time
BERTRAM	So should you be.
	why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
BERTRAM	It is an honour 'longing to our house,
	A royal nobleness: I must embrace thee:
	harm, save to his bed-clothes about him; but they
	Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
Third Watchman	Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
	This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
	Which is the god of my idolatry,
	From the fix'd place; drew from heart all love,
	Or at their chamber-door I'll beat the drum
	Get you a place.
SCENE II	Hall in Capulet's house.
	[To GONERIL]
LAERTES	Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
	And lawful meaning in a lawful act,
	A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
	beautified Ophelia,'--
HAMLET	So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
	Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
EDGAR	Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
	To County Paris, to prepare him up
LAFEU	I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
	I could neither believe nor misdoubt. Pray you,
EDMUND	bastard son to Gloucester.
KING CLAUDIUS	Let him demand his fill.
HAMLET	What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
	him.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alack, what noise is this?
	And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
	Their scanted courtesy.
	didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
	As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
	[Exit PETER]
	I bar it in the interest of my wife:
	But get thee back; my soul is too much charged
	enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of
	Will call discreet proceeding.
Gentleman	The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
HAMLET	The body is with the king, but the king is not with
	Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
	Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
	But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
HAMLET	Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
COUNTESS	Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
	Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
	That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
LADY MACBETH	Who dares receive it other,
	But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
	At least in my opinion.
	would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
ALBANY	Ask him his purposes, why he appears
	Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
	In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
	And thus the native hue of resolution
	To prison with her: and away with him.
	[Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS]
	I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
	Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
BERTRAM	I take her hand.
	Something wicked this way comes.
	Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
ROMEO	Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Doctor	Therein the patient
HORATIO	Is it a custom?
MARCELLUS	Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
	[Knocking]
	Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
	Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
	Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
	Be to content your lord, who hath received you
	And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
	Of thinking too precisely on the event,
	your pardon;
	[Exeunt]
	And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
	[Exit, attended]
LAFEU	But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
	According to the gift which bounteous nature
MALCOLM	I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS, with Musicians]
	It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
	Why hath it given me earnest of success,
	By me invested, he compeers the best.
	|  neighbours and friends to the Widow.
	Our whole city is much bound to him.
	me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
First Clown: [Sings]
	players that I have seen play, and heard others
	Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
	save your word.
	Why to a public count I might not go,
	Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
	In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow.
	But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
	We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
Second Clown	Mass, I cannot tell.
LAERTES	How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
HELENA	I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
	They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
	[KING CLAUDIUS dies]
	That would make good of bad, and friends of foes!
	Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too,
	But give thyself unto my sick desires,
	And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
	And such a daughter,
	Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
	And more, much more; the time will bring it out:
	Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
	Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
	Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES]
		                  DIANA CAPILET.
	And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
	That ever I have felt.
JULIET	Do not swear at all;
	Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
	Duncan comes here to-night.
ROMEO	O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
ROMEO	[To a Servingman]  What lady is that, which doth
Second Witch	Fillet of a fenny snake,
PAROLLES	Away! thou'rt a knave.
	Turk, to make eunuchs of.
	For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
	Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
	Herself most chastely absent: after this,
	Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
	A sister driven into desperate terms,
	Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
	That it's had it head bit off by it young.
Apothecary	Put this in any liquid thing you will,
First Servant	Hold your hand, my lord:
	My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
	I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
KING CLAUDIUS	I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
	That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
	And the rich East to boot.
EDMUND	Nor in thine, lord.
	velvet: his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a
LADY MACBETH	These deeds must not be thought
EDGAR	Away! the foul fiend follows me!
	When he, conjunct and flattering his displeasure,
KING LEAR	Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
	That you do bend your eye on vacancy
	The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
	O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
MACBETH	Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
	And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
	And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!
	Compare her face with some that I shall show,
	[Exeunt]
	Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
	As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
	me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
	But since you have made the days and nights as one,
	His servant live, and will his vassal die:
BERTRAM	How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
COUNTESS	I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
	You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
	Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
	I' the way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
	To have us make denial.
	I shall not look upon his like again.
	No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
GLOUCESTER	I have a letter guessingly set down,
	Let me question more in particular: what have you,
	[Exit REYNALDO]
	Led hither by pure love: which of them both
	dragon's tail; and my nativity was under Ursa
	of our own behavior,--we make guilty of our
	thing; 'tis a lie, I am not ague-proof.
	And hasten your return.
	Under the allowance of your great aspect,
KING CLAUDIUS	Our son shall win.
	It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
	'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
	And after we will both our judgments join
KING	What say'st thou to her?
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
	As are companions noted and most known
HORATIO	No, my good lord.
	A villain kills my father; and for that,
	account?--Yet who would have thought the old man
	As infinite as man may undergo--
	Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
	Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
	With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
	I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
	tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
	My mother did but duty; such, my lord,
	And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
	Of a despised life closed in my breast
MERCUTIO	You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
	The close contriver of all harms,
	Now fear I this will give it start again;
	Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
	Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws,
First Witch	Where hast thou been, sister?
	Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
	That she whom all men praised and whom myself,
	To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
	[Re-enter Widow, with HELENA]
	In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
JULIET	I would not for the world they saw thee here.
	Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
	Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
	Hours dreadful and things strange; but this sore night
LAFEU	Nay, I'll fit you,
	Where got'st thou that goose look?
KING LEAR	What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
	For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
	Since frost itself as actively doth burn
	Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
	Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
All	                  Our duty to your honour.
	liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
	I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
	And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
	And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
HORATIO	You might have rhymed.
	All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
	Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
	[Enter ROMEO]
ACT II
PARIS	These times of woe afford no time to woo.
	Bid her alight,
	Come, help to bear thy master;
	Come on't what will.
	To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
	Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
	So far from sounding and discovery,
	That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
	His taken labours bid him me forgive;
	Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
	And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth:
HORATIO	In what particular thought to work I know not;
	Those bated that inherit but the fall
	Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
HELENA	The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
	The source of this our watch and the chief head
ROSENCRANTZ	|  courtiers.
	And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
	Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
REGAN	I am glad to see your highness.
	And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
OSWALD	Well, madam.
	Duchess of Burgundy.
EDGAR	Bless thy five wits!
PAROLLES	Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
	fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and
	Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
	[Enter BENVOLIO and ROMEO]
	wisdom? so.
	We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
	And still keep eyes upon her. So, good night:
	[Enter GONERIL and EDMUND]
	That dost in vile misprision shackle up
LADY CAPULET	A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
		   Welcome, my good friends!
	But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
	We coursed him at the heels, and had a purpose
	What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
	For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
	The news of thy success; and when he reads
	grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
	my house; thither they send one another: I'll
	her
	That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,
ACT III
COUNTESS	What is the matter?
	Propinquity and property of blood,
	Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me,--
	The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure
HORATIO	[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
CORNWALL	Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
	Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
	Till further settling.
	Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
	thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
	Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
	While night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
	A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
	It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
LADY MACBETH	Fie, for shame!
	The unguarded Duncan? what not put upon
	Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums,
HAMLET	Words, words, words.
	And gave him what becomed love I might,
REGAN	I am doubtful that you have been conjunct
	[Exit Second Clown]
	As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
	Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
	Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine; fill full.
	And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
	[Exeunt]
	Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
	the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:
	gracious Duncan
	And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
	both parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'er
PAROLLES	This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
BANQUO	As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
	An she agree, within her scope of choice
	At our great bidding?
JULIET	Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
BENVOLIO	I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
	Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
	[Exeunt]
	But may not be so credulous of cure,
	Rather corrupt me ever!
	Though my revenges were high bent upon him,
	Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
	Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
	Pursuit would be but vain.
	way:
CURAN	Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
KENT	As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
LADY MACDUFF:
	And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
Gentleman	You are a royal one, and we obey you.
	Could force his soul so to his own conceit
	Offence of mighty note; but to himself
	Will pack when it begins to rain,
	The pitfall nor the gin.
Fool	No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;
JULIET	Feeling so the loss,
	You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
HORATIO	|
	Our potency made good, take thy reward.
	That I protest I simply am a maid.
LORD POLONIUS	Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
	home; there's part of a power already footed: we
	For, by the image of my cause, I see
	quickly! the other that she's in earth, from whence
	I can produce a champion that will prove
	drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to
HAMLET	Ay, madam, it is common.
	flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
	Do you not see that I am out of breath?
MALCOLM	                  This is the sergeant
HAMLET	I embrace it freely;
	That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
	That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
	Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
	Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
	and did the third a blessing against his will; if
	Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  More matter, with less art.
MARIANA	The gods forbid else!
	The unseen good old man.
HELENA	My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
	Most holy and religious fear it is
PAROLLES	Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
LAFEU	They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
	Come, shall we go?
	[Exeunt]
ROMEO	Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
ALBANY	What news?
KING LEAR	O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
	those that are married already, all but one, shall
	[Sleeps]
MACDUFF	Your royal father 's murder'd.
First Witch	I come, Graymalkin!
	If charnel-houses and our graves must send
Old Man	tenant to Gloucester.
	Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
	have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
	With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch,
COUNTESS	'Tis past, my liege;
	And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
	Those pelican daughters.
	As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
	Her mood will needs be pitied.
	It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
	His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
	O woful day, O woful day!
HORATIO	friend to Hamlet.
MERCUTIO	Nay, I'll conjure too.
MACBETH	Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
MACBETH	My dearest love,
	With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
SCENE V	Gloucester's castle.
	'As by lot, God wot,'
	But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
MALCOLM	[Aside to DONALBAIN]  Why do we hold our tongues,
	Macduff lives in disgrace: sir, can you tell
	[Stabs herself]
ACT IV
	For it was bad enough before their spite.
	And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
	Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Captain	Edmund is dead, my lord.
	[Enter LENNOX]
OSRIC	You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
PAROLLES	Why, I say nothing.
Clown	I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a
	In what he did profess, well found.
	Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract:
SCENE V	Florence. Without the walls. A tucket afar off.
LORD POLONIUS	Marry, well bethought:
	Her eye is sick on't: I observe her now.
	Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
KENT	What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
	A face without a heart?
	Our duties did his welcome pay.
ACT V
	Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
	Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
	ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King
	Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
	In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
	Is death to any he that utters them.
	What know believe, and what I can redress,
Fool	[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
Messenger	Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
	And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
	Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
	that infirm and choleric years bring with them.
HORATIO	Season your admiration for awhile
		    I hear a knocking
BENVOLIO	She will indite him to some supper.
	Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
EDMUND	Take them away.
	Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
	Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
	it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
	More richer than my tongue.
	But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
	Thy natural magic and dire property,
	Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
	In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
HAMLET	'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
	[Exit]
	increase and there was never virgin got till
KENT	I must love you, and sue to know you better.
	[Reads]
	Anon, as patient as the female dove,
	Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
ROSENCRANTZ	My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
	to comfort me.
	move under the influence of the most received star;
	And they in France of the best rank and station
	[Enter OSWALD]
	The newest state.
	[Exeunt]
	Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
	At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
	behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be
ACT I
	[Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen
Fool	Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
LAFEU	Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once
BALTHASAR	Full half an hour.
BENVOLIO	Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
Third Apparition	Be lion-mettled, proud; and take no care
HAMLET	He was a man, take him for all in all,
LADY MACBETH	Thou'rt mad to say it:
	Was to be trusted with them.
	Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
KING	I think thee now some common customer.
	whipped for holding my peace. I had rather be any
KENT	O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,
	Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
	with thee.
MARCELLUS	'Tis gone, and will not answer.
JULIET	By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
	Whose names are written there, and to them say,
	men, though it be the getting of children. Here
	has given you one face, and you make yourselves
	[Exit]
First Soldier	O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
	And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee;
	Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
	Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Did you assay him?
	deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward,
	That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
EDGAR	[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
	Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
	And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
MACBETH	Thanks for that:
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
	Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
	By your leave, hostess.
	stairs into the lobby.
	What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
	Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
PAROLLES	I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
	Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
CAPULET	Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
	For they are actions that a man might play:
	For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
	name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
First Gentleman	A servant only, and a gentleman
MACBETH	O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
ACT III
	While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon.
	is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen
	I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring;
TYBALT	nephew to Lady Capulet.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Drown'd, drown'd.
	My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
	him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu:
GLOUCESTER	Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
CLAUDIUS	king of Denmark. (KING CLAUDIUS:)
BENVOLIO	I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
	That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
GLOUCESTER	Go to; say you nothing. There's a division betwixt
ACT II
	and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
	White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
	To sunder his that was thine enemy?
PARIS	Happily met, my lady and my wife!
	down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
MACBETH	Bring forth men-children only;
HORATIO	Not when I saw't.
	Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
	For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
	To reason most absurd: whose common theme
	Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
DUNCAN	So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
DONALBAIN	[Aside to MALCOLM]  What should be spoken here,
	And machination ceases. Fortune love you.
	The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,
	But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
KING LEAR	O, cry your mercy, sir.
	Upon the corner of the moon
	That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
ROSS	Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
	Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
	thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:
MACBETH	There's comfort yet; they are assailable;
LORD POLONIUS	At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
	yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
	If this which he avouches does appear,
	And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
	And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity,
	[Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS]
	[Enter Prologue]
	He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
	That unsubstantial death is amorous,
COUNTESS	Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
	Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off;
PAROLLES	Well, I shall be wiser.
	Hold you the watch to-night?
	You and your fellows; I'll have it come to question:
	But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
HORATIO	In faith,
	and father. This villain of mine comes under the
	kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
	Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
	And there did seem in him a kind of joy
	Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
ACT II
	are.
	Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
	Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
	I after him do after him wish too,
	Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;
	Shall be for me; and, to requite you further,
	to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
	Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
	And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
	Which might appal the devil.
MARCELLUS	'Tis gone!
	your hovel.
	Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain, all
	Rough-hew them how we will,--
	[The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in]
	nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
	By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
	sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
	This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
	Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
	I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
Nurse	Romeo can,
BERTRAM	My high-repented blames,
	MALCOLM, SIWARD, ROSS, the other Thanes, and Soldiers]
PAGE	O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
	[Exit]
	And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
MERCUTIO	A challenge, on my life.
	marks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,
	and debile minister, great power, great
	thee further.
	[Enter Page]
	With cheques as flatteries,--when they are seen abused.
	But she's best married that dies married young.
COUNTESS	In what case?
	Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
SIWARD	Some must go off: and yet, by these I see,
	Is to himself--I will not say how true--
	Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
	Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
	To any pastime?
	Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
	There with fantastic garlands did she come
	[Exeunt]
	There would be hands uplifted in my right;
ALBANY	We will greet the time.
	Tom will make them weep and wail:
	more since.
	My intercession likewise steads my foe.
JULIET	Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
	She is herself a dowry.
	Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
GONERIL	Take you some company, and away to horse:
	Her father and myself, lawful espials,
	Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick:
	That thou so many princes at a shot
KING CLAUDIUS	[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
	Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
GLOUCESTER	But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year
	[Exit Messenger]
	Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
SCENE VI	A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
	I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
First Musician	Why 'Heart's ease?'
SAMPSON	If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
	Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
Widow	Here you shall see a countryman of yours
	In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
	Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
	I would prefer him to a better place.
	Where should we have our thanks?
EDGAR	How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.
Nurse	My fan, Peter.
	Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds
LADY MACBETH	He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
	She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
	Servants to Cornwall.
	That time and place with this deceit so lawful
	That the malevolence of fortune nothing
HELENA	That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you,
	You mainly were stirr'd up.
	But keep a farm and carters.
	That I revived, and was an emperor.
OPHELIA	No, my lord.
	Have fought with equal fortune and continue
REGAN	But are my brother's powers set forth?
	That such a king should play bo-peep,
	This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
	hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
ACT IV
	What is her burying grave that is her womb,
	Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
	Been well inform'd of them; and with such cautions,
SAMPSON	I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
	his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
	The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
	For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
DUNCAN	True, worthy Banquo; he is full so valiant,
CORNWALL	Cunning.
Second Lord	None in the world; but return with an invention and
	As oft it loses all: I will be gone;
HAMLET	How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
	Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes,
	know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
Widow	Now I see
OSWALD	Wherefore, bold peasant,
	No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
	[Enter Nurse and PETER]
ACT II
KING LEAR	Right noble Burgundy,
	For confirmation that I am much more
	word to the action; with this special observance,
	What, ho! apothecary!
KENT	My point and period will be throughly wrought,
REGAN	Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
	Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Fool	[Singing]
BERTRAM	Count of Rousillon.
	[Enter EDGAR]
	Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
First Player	'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
	As if he had been loosed out of hell
FRIAR LAURENCE	A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
OPHELIA	My lord, he hath importuned me with love
	Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
	the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
	As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
	[Enter a Lord]
	Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
LAERTES	Where is my father?
	|	We do, my lord.
COUNTESS	Had you not lately an intent,--speak truly,--
ROSENCRANTZ	To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
	And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
	Your majesty loads our house: for those of old,
	I care no more for than I do for heaven,
	As she had made the overture, she ceased
	And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
	Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
BERTRAM	Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
	Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,
	A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
	You will return and sojourn with my sister,
	smell so strongly as thou speakest of: I will
	Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
	We have this hour a constant will to publish
	Whose welcome, I perceived, had poison'd mine,--
	And not be all day neither.
	To see some mischief on him. O!
HAMLET	Such an act
	Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
	[To KENT and EDGAR]
	wine: but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth
	In honestest defence.
	Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
	Before you visit him, to make inquire
Second Murderer	We have lost
	Adieu, till then; then, fail not. You have won
SCENE I	A cavern. In the middle, a boiling cauldron.
Fool	Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
	And aid me with that store of power you have
HELENA	The great'st grace lending grace
	That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
	[To the Fool]
KING LEAR	You! did you?
LADY CAPULET	What is the matter?
	teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of
HAMLET	Between who?
	Lords, Gentlemen, Officers, Soldiers, Murderers,
	Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
	Will nothing stick our person to arraign
	I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
KING LEAR	I'll see that straight.
	A visor for a visor! what care I
	A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
	I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
	This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
	church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
First Clown	You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
	Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
	That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
	Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
COUNTESS	Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
	Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
HAMLET	Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
	[Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO]
	The strength o' the enemy.
	And urge her to a present answer back:
PETER	O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
	Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
	[KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's]
CAPULET	Go, be gone.
	'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,
	Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
	the woman and I will do as we may.
EDGAR	I would not take this from report; it is,
	Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
	The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
Captain	The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
	casement of my closet.
	With all the admired beauties of Verona:
	And put you in the catalogue of those
Second Lord	You are loved, sir:
Clown	If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be
	May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
	To act in safety. There is none but he
First Lord	That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
	discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
	Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
	That very dogs disdain'd: and in this habit
	My love and her desert; that canst not dream,
	Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
EDGAR	Poor Tom's a-cold.
	off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
	With robbers' hands my hospitable favours
PAROLLES	Ay, sir.
	Farewell, my coz.
	According to my bond; nor more nor less.
	You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
	urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes, and unprovokes;
		Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
	Open, locks,
	He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
	[Sings]
	O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
BERTRAM	I think so.
	you'll sweat for't.
	To one of woman born.
HORATIO	Remember it, my lord?
Third Murderer	Who did strike out the light?
	To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
TYBALT	What wouldst thou have with me?
	heritage: and I think I shall never have the
	And all we mourn for.
	When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
MACDUFF	Wherefore did you so?
	Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
	Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
	I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
KING	Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
	instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
	Already are i' the court.
MERCUTIO	Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
GLOUCESTER	I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
	proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
	There's not a one of them but in his house
ROSENCRANTZ	Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
	Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
	Dry up in her the organs of increase;
	And in the most exact regard support
EDGAR	How now, brother Edmund! what serious
First Lord	How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
	That must destroy thee.
PAROLLES	Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
	But in it shares some woe; though the main part
	Would in so just a business shut his bosom
	his dagger.
	In me at once: but to the brightest beams
PARIS	Of honourable reckoning are you both;
	All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
	Than she to scant her duty.
	in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
	They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
	Please it this matron and this gentle maid
	Therefore I have entreated him along
MERCUTIO	If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
	[Enter BALTHASAR, booted]
	This is not much.
	You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
	Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
First Watchman	Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
	Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
MACBETH	|
	I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
	Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
	for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
	Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
	[Enter CAPULET, LADY  CAPULET, Nurse, and two
	may we barricado it against him?
	Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
TYBALT	Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
SIWARD	Earl of Northumberland, general of the English forces.
	[Re-enter BERTRAM, guarded]
	It hath no end.
	You taking airs, with lameness!
	The which if you with patient ears attend,
	and extend to you what further becomes his
Clown	One good woman in ten, madam; which is a purifying
HAMLET	Saw? who?
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
Nurse	[Within]  Let me come in, and you shall know
	I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but
	Upon her skinny lips: you should be women,
	From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
ALBANY	Fall, and cease!
	Interest of territory, cares of state,--
	That did oppose my will: better Macbeth
	But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
	That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
KING LEAR	Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature
	That takes the reason prisoner?
	like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
	My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
	Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
	I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester:
	For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
	That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
	[Enter POLONIUS]
	Let me unseal the letter.
	ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
	One word more, good lady.
	So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
HAMLET	Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
	To the extreme edge of hazard.
	Give me one poor request.
ROMEO	A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
	Never, never, never, never, never!
	you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
	A combination and a form indeed,
KENT	Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
	Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
BENVOLIO	Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
	I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
	And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
	(First Soldier:)
	She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
KING LEAR	Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
KING CLAUDIUS	O Gertrude, come away!
ROMEO	I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
	To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
ACT I
	that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
	Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
	I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
	[Exit]
COUNTESS	I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
LADY MACBETH	What's to be done?
	Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
	for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
	Believe so much in him, that he is young
Second Lord	This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
	A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
	And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
	To make oppression bitter, or ere this
	Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
FRIAR LAURENCE	That's a certain text.
	you have found him than he was when you sought him:
BERTRAM	Sir, it is
	impatience: the gods reward your kindness!
	of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
	When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
COUNTESS	If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
	Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
GUILDENSTERN	The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
	To come into his presence.
	Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
	His name with zealous fervor sanctify:
	You sulphurous and thought-executing fires,
	To send the old and miserable king
First Sailor	He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
	Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
	Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
	That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
MERCUTIO	No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
	When you durst do it, then you were a man;
	There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
SCENE III	A wood.
	Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
	[Enter a Messenger]
	Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
	[Singing]
	Election makes not up on such conditions.
	So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
	And deeper than oblivion we do bury
	thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which
	[Enter OSWALD]
	Come place him here by me,
	Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
	Which the most precious square of sense possesses;
	To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
	[Flourish]
PETER	Anon!
ROMEO	What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
KENT	I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious
	And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
	Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
BENVOLIO	I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
	Confined to exhibition! All this done
HAMLET	By and by is easily said.
	have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
	Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
	That eye that told you so look'd but a-squint.
	I am a very foolish fond old man,
	For the sound man. Death on my state! wherefore
	Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
ROSS	Will you to Scone?
	Allow not nature more than nature needs,
	A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
	But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
	every thing that an honest man should not have; what
	When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
	The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
GUILDENSTERN	Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
Fool	That lord that counsell'd thee
	I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
	For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
ROSENCRANTZ	Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
	[Enter GLOUCESTER, and Servants with torches]
	So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
OPHELIA	You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
	A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
	So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
	I gin to be aweary of the sun,
	velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't
	[Exeunt]
FRANCISCO	For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Romeo!
	Ha!
HORATIO	Have after. To what issue will this come?
	Till seven at night: to make society
BERTRAM	What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
	Your part in her you could not keep from death,
LAERTES	                  I pray you, give me leave.
EDGAR	Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
	And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
MACDUFF	I have no words:
	Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
	Something in my behalf.
	it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
	flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
	Doth she not think me an old murderer,
	Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
	Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
ACT IV
	In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,--
	With blood removed but little from her own?
GLOUCESTER	Where is the villain, Edmund?
	Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
CORNWALL	What was the offence you gave him?
HAMLET	Never make known what you have seen to-night.
	The untented woundings of a father's curse
	but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into
	My heart is heavy and mine age is weak;
	As meditation or the thoughts of love,
Nurse	Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! fast, I warrant her, she:
	And see how one another lends content
	Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
	In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you,
	Will yield to see his daughter.
	Untimely ripp'd.
	a carpenter?'
CAPULET	As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
	Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
	which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
	Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
	[Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two
	Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
	To keep itself from noyance; but much more
MACBETH	To-night we hold a solemn supper sir,
	[Exit POLONIUS]
	That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
	To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
	And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
JULIET	It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
	I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
	[Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch]
	'An if a man did need a poison now,
	eternal. You shall hear I am run away: know it
	And set a double varnish on the fame
	Given private time to you; and you yourself
	Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
	you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
	friends for my wife's sake.
	Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
	child. We have seen the best of our time:
	And mock us with our bareness.
	Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
MERCUTIO	I mean, sir, in delay
	When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
EDMUND	There's my exchange:
	Or bobtail tike or trundle-tail,
	And I the matter will re-word; which madness
ROMEO	Out of her favour, where I am in love.
All	Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.
	[Enter MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, and Servants]
BENVOLIO	What, art thou hurt?
	My snuff and loathed part of nature should
	the hobby-horse is forgot.'
ALBANY	Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
	Hover through the fog and filthy air.
GLOUCESTER	The king is in high rage.
	lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
	His face I know not.
	bring forth this counterfeit module, he has deceived
	If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
	(QUEEN GERTRUDE:)
	One that goes with him: I love him for his sake;
	world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.
	Make thy words faith'd? No: what I should deny,--
		          Now, fellow,
	That the life-weary taker may fall dead
GONERIL	[To EDMUND]  Then shall you go no further.
PAROLLES	Keep him out.
	[FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO]
	In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
		'GONERIL.'
	'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries.
	So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
	But she knows what she does.
	Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
	For nature to endure.
HAMLET	Sir, a whole history.
HAMLET	Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
	I will no more enforce mine office on you.
	[A noise within]
	'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
	You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
GLOUCESTER	Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:
OSRIC	The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
	What is it else? a madness most discreet,
SCENE IV	Country near Birnam wood.
	'twould not ha' bin zo long as 'tis by a vortnight.
	And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
	Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
	Brother, a word; descend: brother, I say!
	twinkled on my bastardizing. Edgar--
	I crave no more than what your highness offer'd,
	On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
PRINCE	Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
	What husband in thy power I will command:
KING LEAR	To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
	Without our special wonder? You make me strange
Messenger	O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall's dead:
	As often as I guess'd.
	Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
	Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
ROSS	When I came hither to transport the tidings,
SCENE II	A room in the castle.
	You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
	Signifying nothing.
Clown	Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
	Along with me.
	And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
ALBANY	Gloucester's eye!
	But now I see this one is one too much,
	Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
	Pray you, be round with him.
	must fit all demands.
HAMLET	It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
HAMLET	If she should break it now!
	might it not?
	question for your residence.
	Is general woe.
EARL OF KENT	(KENT:)
	He must not be my brother.
	The nearer bloody.
	Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
	[Exit]
	Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
	move
KING	How is that?
	To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
	But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
	I will drain him dry as hay:
SCENE II	Before ALBANY's palace.
ACT III
	O God, she comes!
	Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
	Lamentings heard i' the air; strange screams of death,
	To tell us this.
Second Capulet	                  By'r lady, thirty years.
	Tell me truly.
	To be a comrade with the wolf and owl,--
		  No, no, my lord,
KING LEAR	Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:
	MACBETH
	That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
	And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
HAMLET	That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
	Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
	If none appear to prove upon thy head
	For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
	As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
	And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
	Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
	'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
Nurse	Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
GLOUCESTER	Alack, alack the day!
		     By no means what?
ROMEO	I will follow you.
ROMEO	Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
LADY MACBETH	O proper stuff!
SIWARD	                  Why then, God's soldier be he!
HORATIO	My lord, I did;
	(First Lord:)
	Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
	And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
	So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
	O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
	it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
	Create her child of spleen; that it may live,
	A scullion!
	For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
EDGAR	Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents;
	'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
	[Thunder. Enter the three Witches]
	But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
EDGAR	[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
	Against my coming in: thou better know'st
	I could have well diverted her intents,
	them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but
	Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
	cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove
	Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
	finds no other advantage in the process but only the
	It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
	That I might touch that cheek!
	of his act.
	Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
	Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed
	And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
	turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
	O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
	Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
CORNWALL	Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
	Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
HAMLET	What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
	traitor, let him appear by the third sound of the
	Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
HELENA	I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen
	The which he lacks; that to provoke in him,
	A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
	And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
	Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
	Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
	If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you.
OSWALD	Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
PAROLLES	I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear
	And there assume some other horrible form,
Nurse	Anon, anon!
	thy wrongs;
	When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
	MACBETH
	Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
PAROLLES	Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
	Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth:
GLOUCESTER	These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend
	His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
	You laying these slight sullies on my son,
	bite my thumb, sir.
	[Exit]
	In heavy satisfaction and would never
ROSS	Alas, poor country!
	Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
	sick health!
	And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
	No less in truth than life: my first false speaking
	But to the earth some special good doth give,
	And top extremity.
	hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
	[Exit]
	[Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman]
EDGAR	Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come; no matter vor
	Are but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhood
		  How now! what news?
	To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
HAMLET	With drink, sir?
	Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
OPHELIA	[Sings]
MACDUFF	Not in the legions
	My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
ALBANY	|
ROMEO	Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
LAFEU	Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
	We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
	die. I have letters that my son will be here
KENT	Where learned you this, fool?
	Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy
	That death and nature do contend about them,
	As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
	[Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance]
	But farewell it, for I will use no art.
	it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
	The country gives me proof and precedent
	Strive to be interess'd; what can you say to draw
KING CLAUDIUS	Why, now you speak
ACT III
	O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
JULIET	Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
	perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
HORATIO	As thou art to thyself:
	And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
	The numbers of our host and make discovery
	A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
ACT I
ACT IV
ACT II
First Soldier	[Reads]  'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
	From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
	bounty to sing happiness to him. I will tell you a
	To murder, murder our solemnity?
	And clamour moisten'd: then away she started
Servant	Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
	But, bear-like, I must fight the course. What's he
	Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
	Together with the terror of the place,--
	And hardly shall I carry out my side,
	Yields to the theft: had he been where he thought,
	Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave
	Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
	This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
	of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
	Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
	His son is thirty.
	How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
	An Apothecary. (Apothecary:)
	As he was coming from this churchyard side.
	Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air,
	[Exit]
	Hail, King of Scotland!
First Priest	Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
ROMEO	Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
	[Dies]
LAERTES	[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
	That both the worlds I give to negligence,
JULIET	What storm is this that blows so contrary?
	And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
	They bore him barefaced on the bier;
	Came post with post; and every one did bear
	That westward rooteth from the city's side,
	Ring the alarum-bell. Murder and treason!
	Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
KENT	Vex not his ghost: O, let him pass! he hates him much
	That justly think'st, and hast most rightly said!
	again. The king is coming.
	And show the heavens more just.
PETER	You will not, then?
HORATIO	What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
	king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
	Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive,
	| My lord, we will not.
	Because he married me before to Romeo?
PARIS	That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
ROSENCRANTZ	Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
	[Exit]
	Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
	And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
	That keep her from her rest.
	Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
	And bawds and whores do churches build;
	All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
HORATIO	Friends to this ground.
KENT	[Kneeling]  O my good master!
	And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
	That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
	broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
	as many of your players do, I had as lief the
FRIAR LAURENCE	I will be brief, for my short date of breath
	coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
JULIET	O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
	That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
	certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation;
	By him and by this woman here what know you?
	dearer father in my love.
	The stars above us, govern our conditions;
HAMLET	Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
	We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
	are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He
CORNWALL	This is a fellow of the self-same colour
	Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
	If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
	We go to gain a little patch of ground
	Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
	My voice is in my sword: thou bloodier villain
	it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
LORD POLONIUS	If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
CORDELIA	Nothing.
	Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind:
	More hateful to mine ear.
PRINCE	Give me the letter; I will look on it.
	For he was likely, had he been put on,
	What said my man, when my betossed soul
	I was compell'd to her; but I love thee
	Live elves and fairies in a ring,
	And that which rather thou dost fear to do
	longer than they can sing? will they not say
BERTRAM	My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
	king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
	Your son and daughter.
ACT IV
	MACBETH
	Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
	I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
Widow	Marry, hang you!
	One step I have advanced thee; if thou dost
	Attendants]
Nurse	Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
KENT	Why, fool?
	From simple sources, and great seas have dried
	'Here may you see the tyrant.'
	I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
	Make the gruel thick and slab:
	To sing a requiem and such rest to her
ACT II
	But age, with his stealing steps,
	no legacy is so rich as honesty.
	rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
	Speak less than thou knowest,
	For a few words.
HAMLET	Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
HELENA	I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
	The unreasonable fury of a beast:
	So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
	Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
BENVOLIO	The date is out of such prolixity:
REYNALDO	Ay, very well, my lord.
	And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
ALBANY	Shut your mouth, dame,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
GLOUCESTER	He has some reason, else he could not beg.
	The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
KING LEAR	Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
	performer, I would have that drum or another, or
LAFEU	Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
ROMEO	This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
	So, look about you: know you any here?
	MACBETH
	yourself: many likelihoods informed me of this
	Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
	it: I loved you not.
	Holds such an enmity with blood of man
	Then shall the realm of Albion
ACT I
HAMLET	I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
	As he'ld burst heaven; threw him on my father;
	in him, that with the mischief of your person it
	Our chimneys were blown down; and, as they say,
BERNARDO	'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
	More than in your addition.
	And her troth plight,
	Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
BANQUO	|
HAMLET	How long is that since?
HELENA	Nor would I wish you.
	[Re-enter BENVOLIO]
	thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
	Till supper-time alone: while then, God be with you!
	Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
	By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
	[Scattering flowers]
Third Witch	Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
	substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
	encounter Tybalt?
HAMLET	O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
	The lady stirs.
KING CLAUDIUS	No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
	To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
ROMEO	I do protest, I never injured thee,
	[To the Fool]
Second Lord	I hear there is an overture of peace.
	As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
	When the rash mood is on.
	[Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO]
REGAN	Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
DUKE	Then go thou forth;
JULIET	Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
	If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
	Where is thy lustre now?
	a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
DIANA	Alas, poor lady!
	Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
	To take the indisposed and sickly fit
ROMEO	[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
	Put on with holy prayers: and 'tis spoken,
SEYTON	What is your gracious pleasure?
HAMLET	Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
	your lordship.
	Treachery! Seek it out.
	Give me my sin again.
	Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
	into seeming knowledge, when we should submit
	MACBETH
HAMLET	Never to speak of this that you have seen,
	letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
Nurse	Go, you cot-quean, go,
	That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
KENT	                  My lord, when at their home
		'Affectionate servant,
	[Retires]
	What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
CAPULET	                  Will you tell me that?
BENVOLIO	Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
	MACBETH
	mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
	Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
Fool:
	[Enter Gentleman]
DUNCAN	See, see, our honour'd hostess!
CAPULET	My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
	And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
	If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
	Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
	reports for me.
	So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
	Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
First Witch	Hail!
	It will be laid to us, whose providence
	fear and danger, that his personal return was
PAROLLES	You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too old.
	that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature: for any
KENT	That, from your first of difference and decay,
REGAN	Sister, you'll go with us?
Servant	Up.
	[Retires]
	Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
EDGAR	A serving-man, proud in heart and mind; that curled
	Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.
	Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
	Should have a back or second, that might hold,
	As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
	The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
	Told him my pilgrimage: but his flaw'd heart,
	As make your bouts more violent to that end--
	The rather, if you could devise it so
HORATIO	Why, what a king is this!
	[A banquet prepared. Enter MACBETH, LADY MACBETH,
	What, have you given him any hard words of late?
First Lord	The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
	Why does the drum come hither?
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended]
CORNWALL	Where hast thou sent the king?
	Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
	And not send back my messenger.
	English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
	To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
	As nothing can unroot you. In happy time;
	Became him like the leaving it; he died
	Attendants]
BERTRAM	And so 'tis.
	That she fordid herself.
	Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
		        O, sir, are you come?
LADY CAPULET	O me, O me! My child, my only life,
	is to accuse your mothers; which is most infallible
	By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
	Say what I think of it, since I have found
	not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him
	To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage;
BERTRAM	Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
	And that distill'd by magic sleights
	KING LEAR
	That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
	Spoke, with how manifold and strong a bond
	Which modern lamentations might have moved?
	Most choice, forsaken; and most loved, despised!
	Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
	For Paris, was it? speak.
	Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
	A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
	love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
	Might with effects of them follow our friends,
	Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
	Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
	And bear this work of heaven with patience:
Nurse	See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
PAROLLES	An idle lord. I swear.
	[Flourish. Exeunt]
	Here, friend, 's another purse; in it a jewel
	in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
	MACBETH
	Heaven forgive him too!
HAMLET	That is Laertes,
HORATIO	My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
	Whose absence is no less material to me
	KING LEAR
	through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
	For some must watch, while some must sleep:
	Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
	hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
	Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
MACDUFF	Those that Macbeth hath slain.
	We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
	Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
	Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
BERTRAM	My lord, I neither can nor will deny
	Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
	And top of sovereignty?
	exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they
	But to confront the visage of offence?
	I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
BANQUO	My lord, I will not.
	Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
MACDUFF	Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
KING LEAR	Do.
	fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
EDGAR	      Child Rowland to the dark tower came,
	That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
	A ministering angel shall my sister be,
LAFEU	Nay, come your ways:
	Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
HORATIO	As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
	The true blank of thine eye.
	Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
	your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable
	ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his
	How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
	As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
	Will you two help to hasten them?
	To be invested.
KING LEAR	'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
	How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
	KING LEAR
	He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
	So fearful were they of infection.
	the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
	What darest thou venture?
PAROLLES	My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
	In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
	From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
	And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
HECATE:
	Your faults as they are named. Use well our father:
HAMLET	Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
	He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
	For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
	Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
	Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
SAMPSON	My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
	Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
	carries it: they begin to smoke me; and disgraces
	Examine every married lineament,
GLOUCESTER	O villain, villain! His very opinion in the
	forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
	'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
	So far from cheer and from your former state,
	'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
	But kept a reservation to be follow'd
	The last that e'er I took her at court,
	Among fresh female buds shall you this night
	To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
HORATIO	Not from his mouth,
	Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
	believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I
HAMLET	Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
	To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
REGAN	So white, and such a traitor!
ROMEO	And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
	But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
	Fortune, that arrant whore,
	But misery: I know 'tis from Cordelia,
MACDUFF	Then yield thee, coward,
	This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
	Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
	with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yond
Third Witch	We'll answer.
	What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
	Into a towering passion.
	She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,
MACDUFF	O gentle lady,
	I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
	I'll after them.
	It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
BERNARDO	In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
	To desperation turn my trust and hope!
	ROMEO AND JULIET
PAROLLES	'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
	[Enter LUCIANUS]
	And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
	Know'st thou this paper?
	A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
	[He falls forward]
BERTRAM	And by other warranted testimony.
HORATIO	Two nights together had these gentlemen,
	start not so wildly from my affair.
	Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?
	Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
First Lord	'Tis our hope, sir,
GONERIL	Safer than trust too far:
PAROLLES	No.
	In filial obligation for some term
	Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
	Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
	seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
	Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. Seyton!
	And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
LORD POLONIUS	Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
	Till we do hear from them.
		      What are these faces?
	she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son
	O, a pit of clay for to be made
	By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
	without 'em?
	And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
	(Second Servant:)
	Boy, son to Macduff. (Son:)
	Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
	the world bitter to the best of our times; keeps
	I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.
Second Musician	Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
	[Exeunt]
	Than I and such a knave.
	Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
	I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
DIANA	For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
	Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Lord	My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
	But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
First Clown	For no man, sir.
	Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
	Impossible be strange attempts to those
	Then dreams, he of another benefice:
	me: hush, hush!
	An thou hadst not come to my bed.
	That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
	Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
	Sir, this I hear; the king is come to his daughter,
	pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the
	gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think
	If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
	[Exeunt]
ALBANY	                  I'll overtake you. Speak.
	Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
First Soldier	We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
LAFEU	Your distinction?
	What, in our house?
	up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
ACT II
	Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
	Display'd so saucily against your highness,--
ROSENCRANTZ	Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
	And, from the extremest upward of thy head
	Come on; thou art granted space.
GLOUCESTER	He calls to horse; but will I know not whither.
	[Enter Nurse and PETER]
Nurse	God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
	[He goeth down]
	they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
	O honey nurse, what news?
	[Enter a Messenger]
	[Exeunt]
	And I'll believe thee.
	Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
PRINCE	We still have known thee for a holy man.
	now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
KING CLAUDIUS	Good Laertes,
	them: for they wear themselves in the cap of the
	Methought it was very sweet,
	When second husband kisses me in bed.
CORNWALL	Keep peace, upon your lives:
	ear-kissing arguments?
	With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
Second Watchman	Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
	admit no discourse to your beauty.
PAROLLES	As you'll have her.
HAMLET	God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
	Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
LADY MACBETH	I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
	With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
	I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
	himself could not have prevented, if he had been
	And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
	Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
CAPULET	Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
	I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
	Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
REGAN	Jesters do oft prove prophets.
	May be put from her by society:
	If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
	On whose employment I was sent to you:
	Who I'll entreat to lead me.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
KING	I'll fee thee to stand up.
	Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
COUNTESS	I play the noble housewife with the time
GLOUCESTER	He cannot be such a monster--
BENVOLIO	                  Soft! I will go along;
	To bid my king and master aye good night:
	Hast practised on man's life: close pent-up guilts,
LAFEU	No, no, no.
	[The Fool runs out from the hovel]
	singleness.
	And this same needy man must sell it me.
Gentleman	'Tis hot, it smokes;
	He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before;
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
First Soldier	Do you know this Captain Dumain?
KING	Know'st thou not, Bertram,
	was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
BERTRAM	His good remembrance, sir,
	one.
	And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
	Is partly to behold my lady's face;
	By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
LADY CAPULET	What say you? can you love the gentleman?
	As day does to your eye.
	The natural gates and alleys of the body,
EDGAR	Give me your arm:
REGAN	Till noon! till night, my lord; and all night too.
	And gem of all the nation.
PAROLLES	Right; as 'twere, a man assured of a--
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	A braving war.
	Might be a copy to these younger times;
Clown	She is not well; but yet she has her health: she's
	To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
	Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
	Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
	And, though I kill him not, I am the cause
	And leave you to attend him: some dear cause
	Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
	I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
	Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?
	To wear a heart so white.
	replication should be made by the son of a king?
	None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
	Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
	And live to be the show and gaze o' the time:
	As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
KENT	No contraries hold more antipathy
	But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
	truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
	And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
	But, like the owner of a foul disease,
JULIET	I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
	That calls our person from our morning's rest?
	Yet grace must still look so.
KING LEAR	Let me ask you one word in private.
First Lord	In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
EARL OF GLOUCESTER	(GLOUCESTER:)
	title age cannot bring thee.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  Calmly, good Laertes.
	With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
	[Dies]
	Some misadventure.
	in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming
	Confound and swallow navigation up;
	Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
	Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
TYBALT	Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
	You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
KENT	Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
	A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
KING LEAR	Let the great gods,
	[Exit EDGAR]
	Who hath abused me, as he knows himself,
Nurse	Your mother.
	Of man and country.
	Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
	[Sennet sounded. Enter MACBETH, as king, LADY
	Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
	If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
	And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
GLOUCESTER	By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	That I might be the organ.
LORD POLONIUS	Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
	That ring's a thousand proofs.
ROMEO	Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
	month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success:
	And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
CORNWALL	Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
	We would as willingly give cure as know.
	Seems bruited. Let me find him, fortune!
	MACBETH
Nurse	Ay, a thousand times.
HELENA	                  Do not you love him, madam?
	His beard was as white as snow,
	Means and attendants and my loving greetings
	other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
	Will in concealment wrap me up awhile;
First Clown	'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
	And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
	Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
SCENE IV	The Queen's closet.
	As it is common for the younger sort
KING CLAUDIUS	Where is Polonius?
	of France: O heavens! that this treason were not,
SCENE IV	A street.
	preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
	let to know it is.
	And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
REGAN	Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril--
	But truly, I do fear it.
	general says, you that have so traitorously
	To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
ROMEO	Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
	That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
	Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
KING LEAR	What two crowns shall they be?
	and Attendants]
	Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
	Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
	And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
	[JULIET wakes]
	The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
	When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
JULIET	Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
	protest unto thee--
	'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
	Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
	of honour; so belike is that.
	Conferring them on younger strengths, while we
	A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
	When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
	Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
	Else Paris and the medicine and the king
	Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us,
	To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
	Which I have sometime known.
	[Stabs KING CLAUDIUS]
JULIET	How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
	HAMLET
	Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
	a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
	All flaxen was his poll:
	Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
	Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue
	But like a man he died.
	Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
	[Enter KENT, disguised]
	You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
	Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
BERTRAM	A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
	But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
	Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
	Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
	Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
	Black and portentous must this humour prove,
	leave me: stall this in your bosom; and I thank you
	Which the dark night hath so discovered.
	I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
	And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
	[Exeunt Murderers]
First Lord	We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
	for you did bring me out.
	To talk of your good father. In his youth
	With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
PAROLLES	Why think you so?
	The usurper's cursed head: the time is free:
	And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
	And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
	What he his heart should make
HELENA	I like him well.
	In these to nature she's immediate heir,
	rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove
	That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
	This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
	With that she sighed as she stood,
	And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
	I shall continue thankful.
	Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
	fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
	We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
	For the supply and profit of our hope,
GLOUCESTER	Let him fly far:
	If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
	Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
GONERIL	At your choice, sir.
	Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
SAMPSON	|
DUNCAN	My plenteous joys,
	[Exit]
	Go you, call hither my fool.
	A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
CORNWALL	I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
	livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena;
	tragedians of the city.
	Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
	Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Second Lord	Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal
PAROLLES	That's it; I would have said the very same.
HORATIO	A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
	[Exeunt]
	the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
	This above all: to thine ownself be true,
First Gentleman	Save you, good madam.
	To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
	The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you
	I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
	Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
	[Exit First Player]
	It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
	Will not debate the question of this straw:
	O, what more favour can I do to thee,
	For sweet discourses in our time to come.
	And more above, hath his solicitings,
	And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
	and LAFEU, all in black]
QUEEN GERTRUDE	No more!
HAMLET	Upon my sword.
	neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
Second Lord	If the business be of any difficulty, and this
MACDUFF	O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
	I am cut to the brains.
	Fleance is 'scaped.
	how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
	derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not
GLOUCESTER	In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
	quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
	And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
	And show the best of our delights:
	Posters of the sea and land,
	My lord, not I.
	Did nothing.
HAMLET	He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
OSWALD	My lady's father.
	To what is passed already.
HELENA	Pray, sir, your pardon.
	I pull in resolution, and begin
	Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
SEYTON	an officer attending on Macbeth.
	her education promises; her dispositions she
	And hither shall he come: and he and I
HORATIO	Look, my lord, it comes!
HAMLET	'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
BERTRAM	But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
	goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
	With his prepared sword, he charges home
	[Approaching the door]
	King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en:
MERCUTIO	True, I talk of dreams,
KING LEAR	I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
	Make it your cause; send down, and take my part!
	[Ghost beckons HAMLET]
	Ay, and laying autumn's dust.
OSWALD	Yes, madam.
	first. Come.
	Protest their first of manhood.
	far, would have made nature immortal, and death
MARIANA	I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
	I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
	Of disobedient opposition
	Weary se'nnights nine times nine
	Within this three mile may you see it coming;
ROMEO	And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
LADY MACBETH	But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
BERTRAM	You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it:
PRINCE	What fear is this which startles in our ears?
	him: if you would not, it were a good sign
HAMLET	Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
	And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
	[Exeunt JULIET and Nurse]
	to-night; for indeed he is not for your lordship's respect.
SAMPSON	No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
EDGAR	Sit you down, father; rest you
	He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
	That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
	[Exeunt]
ALL	Listen, but speak not to't.
	Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
COUNTESS	You know, Helen,
	And then is heard no more: it is a tale
	We'll hear, ourselves, again.
	Are ye fantastical, or that indeed
	The sweet and bitter fool
HELENA	The wars have so kept you under that you must needs
	Against his liking: think you it is so?
	been wise.
KING LEAR	No.
	Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
	Where we shall find him most conveniently.
	in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is
	Not one of those but had a noble father.
First Priest	No more be done:
	savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
	There is a remedy, approved, set down,
	Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
	The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
	The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
	[Exeunt Lords]
	KING LEAR
	And I will put that business in your bosoms,
BENVOLIO	My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
	May do, to express his love and friending to you,
ACT III
OSWALD	I am scarce in breath, my lord.
KING CLAUDIUS	How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
	Being the time the potion's force should cease.
	I think you are happy in this second match,
	Servingmen]
	Helen, I mean.
	Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
PARIS	O, I am slain!
KING CLAUDIUS	Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
	though there were no further danger known but the
Second Lord	I have delivered it an hour since: there is
	Deserved much less advancement.
	Till we serve you; but when you have our roses,
	[JULIET appears above at a window]
EDGAR	Gone, sir: farewell.
FRANCISCO	You come most carefully upon your hour.
	You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
	And such an instrument I was to use.
KING	You boggle shrewdly, every feather stars you.
	my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
	major; so that it follows, I am rough and
	Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
First Watchman	Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
JULIET	Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
	rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
	carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
	Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
	She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Nurse	O lamentable day!
	Which challenges itself as honour's born
	Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
ROMEO	Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
HELENA	Gentlemen,
	[A bell rings]
	outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
	His wonders and his praises do contend
Nurse	Peter, stay at the gate.
	You, as your business and desire shall point you;
LADY MACBETH	Nought's had, all's spent,
ROMEO	Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
	Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
	yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
	liars, and adulterers, by an enforced obedience of
MACBETH	See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
	With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
GLOUCESTER	I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
	And leave thee in the storm,
	Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
KING LEAR	Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
	Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
MENTEITH	|
	As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
	heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
JULIET	Madam, I am not well.
	But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
	To bear a poison, I would temper it;
	Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
	Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
	Who here hath lain these two days buried.
	maledictions against king and nobles; needless
	Masking the business from the common eye
HAMLET	Nay, but swear't.
	I know not yet.
	Great business must be wrought ere noon:
	Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
	ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
GLOUCESTER	[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
KING LEAR	I'll tell thee:
BERTRAM	What shall be done to him?
	'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
	Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more;
	transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
	Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
PAROLLES	Good, very good; it is so then: good, very good;
	That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
	Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
	Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
	[Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown]
	Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
LORD POLONIUS	[Aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on my
	knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had
First Soldier	His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
	An you call him a-down-a.
	By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
	He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
	It is in us to plant thine honour where
	And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
	Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison,
	Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
	Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive
	Were in a mask?
	[Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.]
	tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message
HELENA	Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
	If damned custom have not brass'd it so
	And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
	To cozen him that would unjustly win.
	With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
	such dispositions as he bears, this last
	What is the issue of the business there.
	The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
	your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
	Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
BALTHASAR	Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
ROMEO	In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
	When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
KING LEAR	Wilt break my heart?
	What cannot you and I perform upon
	LENNOX, ROSS, and Soldiers, marching]
ALL	Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
First Clown	Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
	And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
	His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
	My thought, whose murder yet is but fantastical,
KING CLAUDIUS	He made confession of you,
	Sole monarch of the universal earth.
	We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
	And set me up in hope? But hush! no more.
MALCOLM	Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
	Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!
Lord	The son of Duncan,
	Since now we will divest us both of rule,
	grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you
KING CLAUDIUS	Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
	Ride more than thou goest,
GONERIL	Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
	Their papers, is more lawful.
	And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
	I'll charm the air to give a sound,
	In riddles and affairs of death;
GLOUCESTER	He hath been out nine years, and away he shall
	My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
	And am fall'n out with my more headier will,
BERTRAM	I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power
PAROLLES	Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
	Of men's impossibilities, have preserved thee.
CAPULET	What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
	HAMLET
	Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
	When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me
FRIAR LAURENCE	Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
SAMPSON	I do bite my thumb, sir.
	wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter; when
	Have more than merited. All friends shall taste
	be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
	Without the form of justice, yet our power
	In the cauldron boil and bake;
	[Exit]
	[To GONERIL]
	He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
	I once did hold it, as our statists do,
	goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
EDGAR	Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
BERTRAM	My gracious sovereign,
HAMLET	O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
	town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
	censure of the which one must in your allowance
	You do not understand yourself so clearly
	With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
BURGUNDY	Most royal majesty,
ALL	Double, double toil and trouble;
	Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
	watching! In this slumbery agitation, besides her
ALBANY	Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
	Perchance 'twill walk again.
	To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the king,
	[A march afar]
	body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here
	Have in thy reverence made!
MACBETH	Both of you
	Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
	That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
	It is the bloody business which informs
	This presence knows,
PETER	Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
MACBETH	Well then, now
ROMEO	I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
	With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
	If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
	Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
REGAN	                  Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
	With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
	Take them in.
	[Exit]
EDGAR	From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
	[Re-enter BERTRAM]
	Or else beshrew them both.
	And meet i' the hall together.
	So the fool follows after.
GLOUCESTER	With all my heart.
	Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
ACT I
	Chorus.
	[Enter CAPULET and Nurse]
	Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
	May token to the future our past deeds.
	[Enter ROSS]
SCENE III	Friar Laurence's cell.
	to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
	So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
	Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her.
	Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
KING LEAR	Ay, boy.
	And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
HORATIO	                  Good my lord, tell it.
KENT	Yes.
	That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
	So brainsickly of things. Go get some water,
	To the direction just.
	whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
	Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
	Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
	How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
	It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
	And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
LUCIANUS	nephew to the king.
COUNTESS	Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
	when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a
	When mine is blanched with fear.
	Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
	But to recover of us, by strong hand
HAMLET	I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
	Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
	Shall of a corn cry woe,
SCENE III	The British camp near Dover.
	nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
	Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
	HAMLET
	mourners, and stay dinner.
	From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
	I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
	For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
	Late footed in the kingdom?
KING LEAR	'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
First Gentleman	Ay, madam;
	O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
	Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
REGAN	But have you never found my brother's way
	And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
	Search every acre in the high-grown field,
	Acquaint my daughter no further with any thing you
	find him not there, seek him i' the other place
	Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
	'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
	That you know aught of me: this not to do,
DIANA	                  I have spoke the truth.
	Transports his poison'd shot, may miss our name,
	gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
	[Reads]
	Is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
	[Guards seize BERTRAM]
REYNALDO	                  My lord, I did intend it.
ACT I
JULIET	Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
	That can my speech defuse, my good intent
	is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with
	Alack, and fie for shame!
	O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
	When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
	To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
Nurse	There's no trust,
SCENE II	Rousillon. Before the COUNT's palace.
	That's able to breathe life into a stone,
REGAN	My sickness grows upon me.
LAERTES	                  Alas, then, she is drown'd?
GUILDENSTERN	Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
	your foins.
MACDUFF	They were suborn'd:
	[Enter Second French Lord, with five or six other
	To-morrow to the field.
	I'll bring you comfort.
	I would not tell you what I would, my lord:
	Intelligence is given where you are hid;
GREGORY	|
	Both to my God and to my gracious king:
	[Enter HAMLET]
	fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
LADY MACBETH	A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
	[Enter MALCOLM and MACDUFF]
FRIAR LAURENCE	So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
	tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur:
	Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
	What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
	And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
	He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Fool	Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
	Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
OSRIC	I know you are not ignorant--
	Why should you fall into so deep an O?
	All's not offence that indiscretion finds
OPHELIA	Ay, my lord.
Second Lord	[Aside to BERTRAM]  O, for the love of laughter,
	Discomfort swells. Mark, king of Scotland, mark:
	Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
	have not seen him this two days.
	[Enter MACBETH]
ROMEO	What, shall I groan and tell thee?
	To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
	As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
	[Enter JULIET]
	easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
	Our great self and our credit, to esteem
	eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
CORNWALL	Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
	And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Second Musician	Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
	The harvest is your own.
	Lest that the infection of his fortune take
	Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
	That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
	Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
Second Gentleman	Such is his noble purpose; and believe 't,
Doctor	Will she go now to bed?
MACBETH	Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits:
Servant	Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
	show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,
	As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
MACDUFF	Look to the lady.
	And doth it give me such a sight as this?
	Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
	washing her hands: I have known her continue in
BERTRAM	I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
LAFEU	Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou
	[Exit]
LADY MACBETH	Consider it not so deeply.
CAPULET	Make haste, make haste.
MERCUTIO	But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
	How unremoveable and fix'd he is
Second Servant	When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
	she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully
	And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
MACBETH	Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo: down!
	Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
	My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
	A greater power than we can contradict
ROMEO	What is her mother?
	How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
	transgressed against his valour; and my state that
	[Exit]
HAMLET	Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
	Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
	Than the sea-monster!
	My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
	makes her story true, even to the point of her
	They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
	That might your nature, honour and exception
KING CLAUDIUS	'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
LADY MACBETH	Your servants ever
	I think it best you married with the county.
	My very character,--I'ld turn it all
	And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
KENT	All the power of his wits have given way to his
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
	[Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper]
	In the poison'd entrails throw.
	What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
OSWALD	What dost thou know me for?
	But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
SCENE I	Florence. The DUKE's palace.
	(Third Witch:)
	To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
REGAN	Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night:
	likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
	Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
	And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
	Nature in you stands on the very verge
	give me your hand. How does your drum?
	Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
CAPULET	What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
	Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
CORNWALL	'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
	Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
EDMUND	When I dissuaded him from his intent,
	Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
PAROLLES	That's for advantage.
	him to his country for justice: grant it me, O
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	with the young noble soldier.
	And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
	All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
	On the opposer.
Steward	May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
	[Exeunt]
ALL	Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
	Her army is moved on.
ROMEO	A most courteous exposition.
	Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
	Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
	Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe:
ALBANY	Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead:
	Doth make against me of this direful murder;
	Pertains to you alone.
	Drew on me here again.
	On flickering Phoebus' front,--
	Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
First Witch	All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
REGAN	I cannot think my sister in the least
DUNCAN	Whence camest thou, worthy thane?
	A Herald.
	Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
	By all the operation of the orbs
	Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
KING LEAR	Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my
	Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
	But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
	believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
	Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
	The fool no knave, perdy.
	We cannot without circumstance descry.
	False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father;
	Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
	When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
	point, so to the full arming of the verity.
	The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
	Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Third Witch	All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
	And tell her she is thine: to whom I promise
First Clown	Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
	And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
	And with this horrible object, from low farms,
	Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
	Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives:
	ROMEO AND JULIET
FRIAR LAURENCE	Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
	Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
	Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
	Else one self mate and mate could not beget
	I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
	make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
EDGAR	How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
	[Exit an Attendant]
	To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
	letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
	[Comes forward]
	What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
HAMLET	Arm'd, say you?
	By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
	The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
	Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
	Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
	thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
	men.
	your daughter.
LORD POLONIUS	That's very true, my lord.
HORATIO	There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
	And all combined, save what thou must combine
	[To KENT]
ROMEO	What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
OSWALD	Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
	The safety and health of this whole state;
	'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
Second Witch	I'll give thee a wind.
LADY MACBETH	I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
	And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
	And go the fools among.
	Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
	One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
	must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
HAMLET	Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
	More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
CORNWALL	And what confederacy have you with the traitors
	Where such as thou mayst find him.
	And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
	knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
	majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
	succession for it perpetually.
SCENE VII	A tent in the French camp. LEAR on a bed asleep,
ALL	So all.
JULIET	                  At what o'clock to-morrow
	That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
Gentleman	Ay, sir; she took them, read them in my presence;
EDGAR	Ay, master.
	Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
	[Exeunt]
	Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count
	Alone, in company, still my care hath been
HAMLET	Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
	Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
	with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
	What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
	though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
COUNTESS	I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;
	And thou art twice her love.
	Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
	Exception bid him speak, and at this time
OSRIC	Ay, my good lord.
Clown	Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
	[Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
KENT	The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
	But only she; and she deserves a lord
ABRAHAM	Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
ACT I
	I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
	When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which
	knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
	And it must follow, as the night the day,
	Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
	But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
MACBETH	Not yet.
	Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
	what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
ACT II
LENNOX	Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
	Hath so exasperate the king that he
	Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
	Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
	[Exit Lord]
	As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
LAERTES	Farewell.
	As calling home our exiled friends abroad
	[Exeunt]
GUILDENSTERN	No, my lord, rather with choler.
	Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
Doctor	You may to me: and 'tis most meet you should.
	How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
	Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
	That stay his cure: their malady convinces
	Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
	In argument of praise, or to the worth
FRIAR LAURENCE	|
	The one in motley here,
LAFEU	Good faith, across: but, my good lord 'tis thus;
	But I will watch you from such watching now.
	The leperous distilment; whose effect
	If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
	Where is he?
KING CLAUDIUS	I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
	To go to Paris?
Clown	You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a
	am no honest man if there be any good meaning
	enough to make such knaveries yours.
	I should report that which I say I saw,
	Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
	That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs;
	To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
	enrich the hand
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
	[Re-enter JULIET, above]
	discovered the secrets of your army and made such
	presence must be the whip of the other.
LADY  CAPULET	We shall be short in our provision:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Bestow this place on us a little while.
	[Exit running; Attendants follow]
PAROLLES	An thy mind stand to't, boy, steal away bravely.
	Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
BERTRAM	No more o' that;
	[They draw and fight]
	I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
	For stony limits cannot hold love out,
CAPULET	God's bread! it makes me mad:
	She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
	Before we reckon with your several loves,
HELENA	Mine honourable mistress.
COUNTESS	What have we here?
ACT III
	What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
	[Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO]
HORATIO	Let them come in.
LENNOX	May't please your highness sit.
	Where most it promises, and oft it hits
	No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
KING	Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
	May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
	I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
SAMPSON	A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
GONERIL	Not so hot:
Second Lord	And how mightily some other times we drown our gain
	With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
HAMLET	O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
	To what I ask you.
EDGAR	son to Gloucester.
	[Knocking within]
	If he dislike it, let him to our sister,
LADY MACBETH	Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
	Some private speech with you.
KING LEAR	My wits begin to turn.
	flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
	Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
	[Reads]
First Lord	Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves,
	My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
	Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
	Must give us pause: there's the respect
BANQUO	That trusted home
KING LEAR	She cannot deny it.
	In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
	KING LEAR
	And that I'll spend for him.
	Which are the children of an idle brain,
	was I with you there for the goose?
	Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
BANQUO	There if I grow,
	He that of greatest works is finisher
	And let them know, both what we mean to do,
MACDUFF	He has no children. All my pretty ones?
	Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
	By having him, making yourself no less.
	MACBETH's place]
	away the performance: therefore, much drink
EDGAR	Armed, brother!
	Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
	[Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch]
	[Exit]
REYNALDO	Very good, my lord.
	Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
	But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
	Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
	A deed of dreadful note.
	Toad, that under cold stone
	Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
	For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
First Lord	Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
First Murderer	Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
	His death was so effected: better 'twere
	And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
	Nor would we deign him burial of his men
	A Scotch Doctor. (Doctor:)
	intelligence in his power against you, and that with
	[Enter ROMEO]
	his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
DIANA	It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
	this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
DUKE OF CORNWALL	(CORNWALL:)
	[Exeunt]
	into amazement and admiration.
	[Exit First Servant]
	Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
KING LEAR	Dost thou call me fool, boy?
	[Exit BANQUO]
	With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
	'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
	This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
SCENE I	A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
BERTRAM	But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
	out the villain Gloucester.
CORNWALL	Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
First Clown	He was the first that ever bore arms.
	HAMLET
GLOUCESTER	What paper were you reading?
Doctor	Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
	any convenience, an he were double and double a
	study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
	Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
	Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
ROMEO	Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
	My services are bound. Wherefore should I
	[Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers]
	Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
HELENA	                  O, I believe with him,
Captain	Yes, it is already garrison'd.
	there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
	upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
	Only in this disguise I think't no sin
	And follow me, that will to some provision
	If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
	|
LADY CAPULET	That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
	Some comfort, nurse.
Second Lord	A' will betray us all unto ourselves:
LADY MACBETH	The thane of Fife had a wife: where is she now?--
	[Opens the gate]
	A credulous father! and a brother noble,
	The sleepers of the house? speak, speak!
	Where is your mother?'
HAMLET	To be, or not to be: that is the question:
JULIET	What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
	To make distinction: provide this messenger:
ALBANY	Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
EDMUND	How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
	Shall for my legacy be sanctified
	Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
	that: heaven knows what she has known.
	addition I can: I will not be long from you.
HAMLET	Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
	Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
	as it hath power, but as it is suffered. Come to
	king himself.
	And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
MACBETH	My name's Macbeth.
	He may enguard his dotage with their powers,
	slower; and, as I say, retire with me to my
	the streets,
	So show her merit, that did miss her love?
	MACBETH
	Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here?
First Clown	Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
	and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
	odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
	I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
KING CLAUDIUS	[Rising]  My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
	[They swear]
	But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
	That I to your assistance do make love,
	Return us thanks.
	The hind that would be mated by the lion
	Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
Third Murderer	Almost a mile: but he does usually,
	with a shame as ample.
	But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
	She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
Nurse	His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
KENT	I am come
	And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
HAMLET	Come on, sir.
OSRIC	It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
	My low and humble name to propagate
	Sought to be king o'er her.
KING LEAR	Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
	It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
	And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
	The court's a learning place, and he is one--
ROMEO	Stay, fellow; I can read.
	For this night's watching.
BALTHASAR	As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
	Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
	[Snatching ROMEO's dagger]
	Will you be cured of your infirmity?
	When others are more wicked: not being the worst
	Speak to me:
	pretence of danger.
OSRIC	Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
	To give it from me.
	And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
KING LEAR	Who put my man i' the stocks?
	'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
DUKE	Welcome shall they be;
HAMLET	What, frighted with false fire!
	That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
	Do thee all rights of service.
	What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
	Take him and cut him out in little stars,
	thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
	[Sings]
	He is gone, he is gone,
KENT	You.
	[Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and army]
SCENE IV	Hall in Capulet's house.
	any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
	I pray you, pass with your best violence;
MACDUFF	I have lost my hopes.
DUKE	So that from point to point now have you heard
HELENA	That wishing well had not a body in't,
First Lord	God save you, noble captain.
KING CLAUDIUS	From Hamlet! who brought them?
	PROLOGUE
COUNTESS	What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah:
	Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
	Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
	We'll no more meet, no more see one another:
	which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize
	Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
	Can you advise me?
	That he is loved of me: I follow him not
	As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
	A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet
	Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
	That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
	Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
	Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
	Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
	In such a business give me leave to use
	And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
	from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's
BERTRAM	[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
	And was a common gamester to the camp.
KENT	But who is with him?
	As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
	When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
Gentleman	Though that the queen on special cause is here,
	Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
	A limbeck only: when in swinish sleep
	A young man married is a man that's marr'd:
	They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
	Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
	worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
	(Servant:)
	Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
	A villain that is hither come in spite,
	What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
	has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed
	Worthy the note.
	What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
	those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
	A father, and a gracious aged man,
	All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
	(First Gentleman:)
	damned than to do't?
KING LEAR	Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer
	That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
	Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
	His silence will sit drooping.
	From another one?
	Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
	For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Second Murderer	Then 'tis he: the rest
ALBANY	Speak, man.
KING LEAR	A pestilent gall to me!
Gentleman	Ready, my lord.
	Might be the be-all and the end-all here,
MARCELLUS	|
	On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
	hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
	To knee his throne, and, squire-like; pension beg
	(Second Servant:)
	And usest none in that true use indeed
HELENA	[Reads]  Till I have no wife I have nothing in France.
	[Enter, in conquest, with drum and colours, EDMUND,
	Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
	To you that know them not. This to my mother:
MACBETH	Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
	Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
	Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
	will give me occasion.
ALL	Well contented.
LADY MACBETH	Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;
	Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
TYBALT	'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
	Stands on the hourly thought.
	We will require her welcome.
	The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
	Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.
	Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
	[They fight, and EDGAR knocks him down]
	Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
	A deep repentance: nothing in his life
	Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
	O, that way madness lies; let me shun that;
	It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
	call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
ROSS	That now
	[Exit]
	Your party in converse, him you would sound,
LADY CAPULET	Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
HELENA	Nor you, mistress,
Second Lord	No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
	a very good blade! a very tall man! a very good
Gentleman	I will talk further with you.
	Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
	Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
ACT III
	When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
HAMLET	It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
	To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
	You know the goodness I intend upon you:
	privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with
HAMLET	Good madam!
	Methinks he seems no bigger than his head:
	'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
MALCOLM	Now near enough: your leafy screens throw down.
LADY MACBETH	What's the business,
	'spare not me?' Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very
	Do you not love my sister?
	Advise yourself.
	Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
First Lord	You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
	or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
KENT	Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back
COUNTESS	Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen,
	Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
JULIET	O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
	Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
LADY CAPULET	That same villain, Romeo.
	is within a very little of nothing.
	[Enter Nurse, to the chamber]
	Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
	With what it loathes for that which is away.
	To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven
ROMEO	How well my comfort is revived by this!
	With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
	thousand tenants.
	Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
	O son! the night before thy wedding-day
	Thou talk'st of nothing.
	Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
	Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
GLOUCESTER	Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
	Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now
	Their heads to their foundations; though the treasure
	i' the world.
	Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
	But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
	Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
	whether you were sent for, or no?
	The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
	That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
GLOUCESTER	Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
ACT III
FRIAR LAURENCE	Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
	In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
Doctor	What is it she does now? Look, how she rubs her hands.
	Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
First Soldier	Here 'tis; here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
	constrains a man to bow in the hams.
ACT III
	To lay our service freely at your feet,
	Our royal master 's murder'd!
	With open outcry toward our monument.
Nurse	Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
	tailor made thee.
LAFEU	Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
LADY MACBETH	If he had been forgotten,
EDGAR	You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
	I bear a charmed life, which must not yield,
	So be my grave my peace, as here I give
	Make we our march towards Birnam.
	If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
	[Exeunt]
	set this counterfeit.
	That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
	are not mine.
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
	What is between you? give me up the truth.
	But that I am your most obedient servant.
	Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
	And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
Fool	She will taste as like this as a crab does to a
	[Enter ROMEO]
	thee. Farewell.
	Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
KING CLAUDIUS	Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
	As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
	And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
REGAN	Sick, O, sick!
HAMLET	I beseech you, remember--
	To deal with grief alone.
	Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
	Each part, deprived of supple government,
	A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
LAERTES	You mock me, sir.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
	The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
	[Enter HELENA, and two Gentlemen]
BERTRAM	Damnable both-sides rogue!
	daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
	Nor will you tender less.
	What is the matter?
	And to be baited with the rabble's curse.
EDMUND	Spake you with him?
	Silver'd in the moon's eclipse,
	No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
	[Falls on ROMEO's body, and dies]
	When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
	Since nature cannot choose his origin--
	He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
	More should I question thee, and more I must,
	and on at pleasure.
	the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
	How should I your true love know
	face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
	And learn me how to lose a winning match,
	[Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool]
HAMLET	You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
	and credit and as I hope to live.
	An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
	Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
OPHELIA	'Tis brief, my lord.
	Let not my jealousies be your dishonours,
	HAMLET
	you are o' the commission,
	You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
GUILDENSTERN	But with much forcing of his disposition.
	wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
SCENE III	Dunsinane. A room in the castle.
	me, that of this I may speak more. If our father
	Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
	KING LEAR
	More is thy due than more than all can pay.
	That we may call it early by and by.
	Have a command to tend you?
	Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
	well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
	An Old Man
	I do beseech your grace,--
	To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward:
BANQUO	Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven;
	The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly
DUNCAN	Great happiness!
Son	Then the liars and swearers are fools,
	Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
First Witch	When shall we three meet again
	Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
	earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
	[To BANQUO]
	[Laying down her dagger]
	[Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE]
JULIET	O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
JULIET	Can heaven be so envious?
	When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
	Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
HAMLET	That's two of his weapons: but, well.
	[Exeunt]
	Make servants of their betters.
	Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
	In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
	I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
ACT IV
	Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
	Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure:
First Clown	A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
	Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
	Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
	Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
First Murderer	But who did bid thee join with us?
	Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
Fool	Then 'tis like the breath of an unfee'd lawyer; you
	Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
ANGUS	|
	Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
HORATIO	Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
HORATIO	Most constantly.
	Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
	[Descends]
	Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
	They say, our French lack language to deny,
BENVOLIO	Strike, drum.
HELENA	Not here, sir!
EDGAR	Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise
	Make instruments to plague us:
	And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
	Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
First Lord	The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
	It had been as a gap in our great feast,
	The need we have to use you did provoke
	[Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN]
	O heavy burthen!
	and other Attendants. (Lord:)
	cities, mutinies; in countries, discord; in
PAROLLES	I know you are the Muskos' regiment:
	By Sinel's death I know I am thane of Glamis;
KING OF FRANCE	Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
	I have full cause of weeping; but this heart
HAMLET	Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
	Stand not upon the order of your going,
	And something from the palace; always thought
	No, but not yet: may be he is not well:
	The extravagant and erring spirit hies
	assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
	An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
LAERTES	None but his enemies.
ROSENCRANTZ	Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
	That two-fold balls and treble scepters carry:
	The head and he shall louse;
	To have her match'd: and having now provided
	Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
KING LEAR	Are you our daughter?
	To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
	She's not well married that lives married long;
	Augurs and understood relations have
HAMLET	I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
	[Exit]
MACBETH	I think not of them:
	In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
MACBETH	                  Speak, if you can: what are you?
EDGAR	When we our betters see bearing our woes,
	And pay no worship to the garish sun.
	That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
	And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
	Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
DIANA	I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
	Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
JULIET	Romeo!
FRIAR LAURENCE	Now must I to the monument alone;
REGAN	Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
LADY CAPULET	Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
	This is a dreadful sentence.
	[Storm still]
	He knows himself my bed he hath defiled;
KING	Now, good Lafeu,
	[To ALBANY]
	In honourable fashion.
	I will come after you with what good speed
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN]
	[Exeunt]
	[They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain]
	I pray, desire her call her wisdom to her.
	Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
	Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
KING	Where did you find it, then?
	King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
JULIET	O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
	The which immediacy may well stand up,
	To suffer with the body: I'll forbear;
	To merit bliss by making me despair:
	And writ as little beard.
	Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
LAFEU	Ay; is it not a language I speak?
	And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
HAMLET	[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
	Shall come against him.
	When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
	Something to save thy life.
	and ladies too, they will not let me have all fool
	Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
EDMUND	Nor is not, sure.
	To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
	This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
	Let it be tenable in your silence still;
	mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
	Would through the airy region stream so bright
	And so, his knell is knoll'd.
HELENA	But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
	My lord and master.
	too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
	your letter.
	Are made already mothers: by my count,
	That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
	Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your highness
	A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
	Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
	[Enter BERTRAM, the COUNTESS of Rousillon, HELENA,
	Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
	Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
	[Storm still]
LADY MACBETH	What, quite unmann'd in folly?
	And thereto add such reasons of your own
	to the wall.
	(Sergeant:)
	of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
	The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
	For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
KENT	Yes, sir; but anger hath a privilege.
	And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
	lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
	And, to deal plainly,
First Musician	An you re us and fa us, you note us.
	slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
PAROLLES	I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
	My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
LAERTES	No.
	He had not my virginity.
	This is the very ecstasy of love,
	Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Player King	'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
GUILDENSTERN	My lord, I cannot.
OPHELIA	There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
	But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
MENTEITH	The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
	I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
	Will close the eye of anguish.
	Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
GLOUCESTER	                  Away, and let me die.
	And I for sorrow sung,
	Am I to fear, or none.
MACBETH	Let's briefly put on manly readiness,
	to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of;
	Hark you! they come this way.
GLOUCESTER	Because I would not see thy cruel nails
HAMLET	Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
	And the king gone to-night! subscribed his power!
MACBETH	Take thy face hence.
Second Gentleman	We serve you, madam,
	Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the
	[Music. The witches dance and then vanish,
LAFEU	Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
	A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
	Good my lord, will you see the players well
	Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
	blowers up! Is there no military policy, how
	he will keep out water a great while; and your water
	Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
	Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
	mightst behold the great image of authority: a
	Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
HAMLET	Are you fair?
	Is done to cure it.
	And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
	What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
	and exeunt]
ROMEO	Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
	As captain shall: simply the thing I am
OPHELIA	I think nothing, my lord.
	Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
LADY MACBETH	Was the hope drunk
	Unto that element: but long it could not be
	To season love, that of it doth not taste!
	Against my near'st of life: and though I could
	As you are now, for you are cold and stem;
	[Sleeps]
	Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
	As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
	The power of man, for none of woman born
HELENA	Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
ROMEO	I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added
	This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer;
	Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
	graves. Find out this villain, Edmund; it shall
MERCUTIO	The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
	Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
Second Witch	All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, thane of Cawdor!
	Could to no issue of true honour bring.
	If you desire to know the certainty
	But I must also feel it as a man:
	Is to receive our duties; and our duties
Servant	Soldiers, sir.
	This but begins the woe, others must end.
Second Apparition	Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
PARIS	I do defy thy conjurations,
	[Falls]
		          Awake, awake!
	According to our order.
Fool	If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in
	complexion.
	Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
BENVOLIO	Groan! why, no.
	By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
	now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
	of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him
	And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
	Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
	My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
	sorrow that e'er I heard virgin exclaim in: which I
MALCOLM	'Tis call'd the evil:
LAFEU	Why, your dolphin is not lustier: 'fore me,
	By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
	wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
	bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,
	What is the reason that you use me thus?
	my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
	But virtue, as it never will be moved,
	Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
	Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd;
	They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
	If you will take a homely man's advice,
	This something-settled matter in his heart,
KING LEAR	How's that?
	A babe to honour her! If she must teem,
	Is practise only. Give me my servant forth.
	Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
MACBETH	Geese, villain!
CURAN	You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.
	[Exeunt]
QUEEN GERTRUDE	For love of God, forbear him.
	nothing, is to be a great part of your title; which
OSWALD	Where may we set our horses?
KING LEAR	If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
	Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
	Thou canst not then be false to any man.
	And more convenient is he for my hand
	False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
OSRIC	I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
HAMLET	Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
	Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
	horses ready?
	bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from
HAMLET	                  I will watch to-night;
	And I shall lose my life for want of language;
LADY CAPULET	[Within]         Ho, daughter! are you up?
	Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
	If I say sooth, I must report they were
	Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
	Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
	[Enter GHOST and HAMLET]
ALL	The weird sisters, hand in hand,
EDGAR	Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
Clown	O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Nay, but, Ophelia,--
	What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
	That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
	know you the reason?
KENT	Alack, why thus?
SCENE II	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal;
	Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
SCENE V	Dunsinane. Within the castle.
	written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
HORATIO	Ay, good my lord.
LADY CAPULET	What noise is here?
	For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
	By indirections find directions out:
Doctor	Be by, good madam, when we do awake him;
	Of murderous lechers: and in the mature time
Second Lord	Hath the count all this intelligence?
	Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
	Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
HAMLET	That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
	Your sister is the better soldier.
	And at that time he got his wife with child:
First Servant	Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
	Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
KING LEAR	Come, boy.
	As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
	Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
	Do make their children blind;
MALCOLM	I thank you, doctor.
MACBETH	Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men;
	Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
	And betimes I will, to the weird sisters:
LORD POLONIUS	The actors are come hither, my lord.
	[Exit, with PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within]
	To doff their dire distresses.
	But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
	I speak in respect--
TYBALT	Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
PAROLLES	A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.
		       What is your tidings?
	While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
GONERIL	Ask me not what I know.
	And when we have our naked frailties hid,
PAROLLES	Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
	Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
LADY CAPULET	No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
Gentleman	Save yourself, my lord:
	As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
Second Lord	We cannot afford you so.
	(Second Witch:)
	[Knocking within]
	Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
LAFEU	O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good
	I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
LAFEU	I am sure I saw her wear it.
	in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
	dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is
Nurse	By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
KING CLAUDIUS	Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
	and horror of it: pray you, away.
	between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
	Stand aye accursed in the calendar!
	Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
	[Drawing his sword]
	ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
CORNWALL	Edmund, farewell.
Sergeant	Yes;
SCENE	Britain.
	Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
	Come forth.
PAROLLES	Recantation! My lord! my master!
LADY MACBETH	Help me hence, ho!
	And her immortal part with angels lives.
KING LEAR	Ha! sayest thou so?
MARCELLUS	Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
	as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
	That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
	[Opens the tomb]
	and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
ACT I
KING LEAR	It may be so, my lord.
	Why? that you are my daughter?
KING CLAUDIUS	I do not think't.
KING LEAR	You must bear with me:
	In differences so mighty. If she be
	And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
Second Lord	No better, if you please.
	[Exit a Knight]
	Cannot be seen or heard: do but look up.
	Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
	And from her womb children of divers kind
MACBETH	I have almost forgot the taste of fears;
	There's daggers in men's smiles: the near in blood,
	I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
	See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
	[Exeunt severally]
	On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
	Than now to bid you hold.
	And all-thing unbecoming.
	And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
	Which was declining on the milky head
	He whom my father named? your Edgar?
	Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown.
	leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
	(First Servant:)
	Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
	Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	                  Let us haste to hear it,
SCENE II	The same.
DUKE	The general of our horse thou art; and we,
HORATIO	These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
	But make amends now: get you gone,
KENT	Importune him once more to go, my lord;
	I'll not be there.
	That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
	By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour
	Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
	That Romeo bid thee fetch?
	And there I left him tranced.
EDMUND	To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
Ghost	Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
	What if it be a poison, which the friar
	There's yet one good in ten.
	Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
	In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
	[Enter HORATIO]
	thou art nothing.
	wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
	I will keep still with my philosopher.
HORATIO	Is't possible?
Nurse	It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
PAROLLES	[Aside]  I'll no more drumming; a plague of all
ROMEO	I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
	excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
CORDELIA	Sir, do you know me?
	But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
	Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown,
	Exempted be from me the arrogance
JULIET	What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
	Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
	Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.
	But send him back.
	At the prefixed hour of her waking,
	Our eldest-born, speak first.
FRIAR LAURENCE	I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
	Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
	Of general assault.
	So poorly in your thoughts.
	[Enter three Murderers]
	When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
	mouths in a glass.
	But let them measure us by what they will;
First Soldier	[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
	My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
	[Exeunt]
	You must sing a-down a-down,
SCENE III	Another room in the castle.
	here's a night pities neither wise man nor fool.
HAMLET	Do you think I meant country matters?
	And that our drift look through our bad performance,
KING LEAR	Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I
	[Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head]
	If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
	[Retires and kneels]
HELENA	Then, I confess,
MACBETH	He does: he did appoint so.
	that without any further delay than this very evening.
	The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
	It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
LAFEU	This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes off
	As mad as the vex'd sea; singing aloud;
BERTRAM	I think she has: certain it is I liked her,
	Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
	The form of plausive manners, that these men,
	You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
	Receive in either by this dear encounter.
	In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.
	Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
HAMLET	Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
	Her father's heart from her! Call France; who stirs?
	I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--
	And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
	[Laying his hand on his sword]
	And we shall jointly labour with your soul
	And stole into the covert of the wood:
MACBETH	Where are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
	Howe'er you come to know it, answer me:
	one man picked out of ten thousand.
	[Dies]
	Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
	Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
KING	Nay, 'tis most credible; we here received it
	Shalt with him hence.
	I pray you, now receive them.
JULIET	Speakest thou from thy heart?
	Should be as moral as an old man's life?
	A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame
	hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this
	Try what repentance can: what can it not?
	My fool usurps my body.
	Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
	And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
DUNCAN	What bloody man is that? He can report,
	at me? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not
HELENA	My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
	In measureless content.
	The bottom of your purpose.
	have him now,--and there,--and there again, and there.
	Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
	for you: you have a new mistress.
First Lord	None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
	Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
HAMLET	I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
KENT	No, sir; but you have that in your countenance
	there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
	To ratify the work--we may again
HAMLET	He will stay till ye come.
	Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Second Lord	They shall be no more than needful there, if they
	Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
	And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
	That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so;--
	I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund;
	Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
YOUNG SIWARD	No; though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
PAROLLES	So I say.
	I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
	[Drum afar off]
	Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,
	That if they come to sojourn at my house,
	A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable;
	'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
First Soldier	E'en such as you speak to me.
Steward	[Reads]
	When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
	That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
	To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
	But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
	To make thee capable.
GLOUCESTER	What, hath your grace no better company?
	Shall have the chinks.
	A little to disquantity your train;
	She that herself will sliver and disbranch
ROSS	I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
	Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
OSRIC	Sir?
GLOUCESTER	Let's see, let's see.
	What majesty should be, what duty is,
	Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
First Lord	It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in
	Our free hearts each to other.
	Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
	of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the
	Gerard de Narbon was my father;
	doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
KING LEAR	Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
	[Giving a paper]
PAROLLES	France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
	I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!
Old Man	'Tis unnatural,
	hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
ROMEO	What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
	fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
	Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
	Before the head has any,
	Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
	For what advancement may I hope from thee
	But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
	When rather from our acts we them derive
	with his followers]
	Which men full true shall find;
OPHELIA	daughter to Polonius.
	Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
	With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
	I would not from your love make such a stray,
	Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
	[Enter JULIET]
	For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
	Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
Second Witch	When the hurlyburly's done,
	the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
	I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
	And in the porches of my ears did pour
	(Servant:)
	Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
EDGAR	None at all.
	Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
	[Enter EDGAR]
	How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
	plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
	That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
DONALBAIN	|
KING LEAR	Is this well spoken?
MACDUFF	Is the king stirring, worthy thane?
ACT II
	The other found out there.
	leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
	I told him of the army that was landed;
	is mad, and sent into England.
	Think true love acted simple modesty.
	Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
	With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
	What guests were in her eyes; which parted thence,
Second Lord	As't please your lordship: I'll leave you.
	And, which is worse, all you have done
	Of those effects for which I did the murder,
	we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
	An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
	Citizens of Verona; several Men and Women,
	Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
	That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
MERCUTIO	Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
	[Exit]
	The life o' the building!
	Away to heaven, respective lenity,
	Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
HORATIO	O, my dear lord,--
Clown	That man should be at woman's command, and yet no
	Listening their fear, I could not say 'Amen,'
	His powerful sound within an organ weak:
	The County Paris hath set up his rest,
	Be thy mouth or black or white,
	shall be dry again.
	In your fine frame hath love no quality?
JULIET	O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
Danes	[Within]                Let her come in.
Nurse	O, he is even in my mistress' case,
	[Exeunt]
ROMEO	'Tis the way
	So by my former lecture and advice,
	mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
	that cry out on the top of question, and are most
	[He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it]
	Is this a dagger which I see before me,
	[Noise within]
KING	Who lent it you?
	machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
MACBETH	I hear it by the way; but I will send:
FLEANCE	The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
LORD POLONIUS	Indeed, that is out o' the air.
	As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
	Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
HAMLET	How does the queen?
	Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
	That before you, and next unto high heaven,
	The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
	As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
	Commanded me to follow, and attend
	For we will fetters put upon this fear,
	[Takes a sword, and runs at him behind]
BERTRAM	I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
HELENA	                  Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
	Nay, send in time.
	Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
	Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
	And foreign mart for implements of war;
	Nurse to Juliet. (Nurse:)
ACT IV
	And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
	With any branch or image of thy state;
ROMEO	A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
MACBETH	It will have blood; they say, blood will have blood:
	On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
CAPULET	Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
	Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
	The king's coming; I know by his trumpets. Sirrah,
	[Exit]
Messenger	Gracious my lord,
BERTRAM	Let that go:
BERNARDO	Say,
	O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
	Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
	But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
	No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
	No note upon my parents, his all noble:
	What is't you do?
	[Exeunt]
	course; where, if you violently proceed against
	[Exit Second Servant]
First Soldier	What is his reputation with the duke?
	But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
KING CLAUDIUS	Give me some light: away!
	What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
	That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
	We'll put the matter to the present push.
	gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
LENNOX	Mean you his majesty?
	You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred; only I
HAMLET	'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
	Ghost of Hamlet's Father. (Ghost:)
	And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
	O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
	Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
	And read out this.
	contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
	[To LAERTES]
	Must make content with his fortunes fit,
	To such a greeting: villain am I none;
	may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
	Your cuckoo sings by kind.
	more choler.
	A second time I kill my husband dead,
	I'll not endure him.
	When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
	To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
	grave-maker?
	Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
	Which you will wonder at.
	death: her death itself, which could not be her
	And, to the last, bended their light on me.
ROUSILLON	mother to Bertram. (COUNTESS:)
	Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
	Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
	great folk should have countenance in this world to
	And passion in the gods.'
JULIET	What's he that now is going out of door?
GONERIL	This admiration, sir, is much o' the savour
MACDUFF	But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
	Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
	She is not fourteen. How long is it now
	But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
HORATIO	If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
	face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
	business as I shall find means and acquaint you withal.
	Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
	danger of kibes?
	Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
LAFEU	Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not
Clown	'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
	that he comes not along with her.
GLOUCESTER	What, with the case of eyes?
	And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
	|
	So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
	spirit, hath sent me to you.
	So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
	Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
	For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
JULIET	Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
LORD POLONIUS	I will say so.
Lord	The king and queen and all are coming down.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?
VIOLENTA	|
	Pur! the cat is gray.
Servant	The English force, so please you.
	Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
	To be contracted in one brow of woe,
	For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
	With strife to please you, day exceeding day:
GREGORY	'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
	steward, that stole his master's daughter.
First Lord	Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
	That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
	there to command.
	out, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.
BENVOLIO	At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
	The world affords no law to make thee rich;
MARCELLUS	Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
	Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
	Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
	rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus: he
Gentlewoman	She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
	Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he
	Your tributary drops belong to woe,
	So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
	more willingly part withal: except my life, except
	before him.
	Might have the freer course.
	From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
	the earth?
	Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.
	He bears him like a portly gentleman;
	Examine other beauties.
LADY MACDUFF	Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
	MACBETH
LADY MACBETH	Know you not he has?
	Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
	All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
Clown	It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
	Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
First Clown	Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
MARCELLUS	|
	Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
	Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
	me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
	Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
	my hair; wore gloves in my cap; served the lust of
Fool	Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
	All the particulars of vice so grafted
	But that myself should be the root and father
OPHELIA	Good my lord,
	No more, sweet Hamlet!
First Clown	Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
	To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
	When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
	Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
	[To the Fool]
	Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
	shalt be!' This have I thought good to deliver
First Servant	Away with the joint-stools, remove the
MALCOLM	Be comforted:
	Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
	out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
	The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
	friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
	Itself for being there?
	The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
	No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
REGAN	Good sir, no more; these are unsightly tricks:
	False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?
	When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
	Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
	Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
	My unprovided body, lanced mine arm:
	made in the unchaste composition.
	Or, if I live, is it not very like,
	Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
		    O, are you free?
	It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
	The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
COUNTESS	It rejoices me, that I hope I shall see him ere I
	better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
	Another ring, that what in time proceeds
	Unto the voice and yielding of that body
	A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
BENVOLIO	Here were the servants of your adversary,
	As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
	Unspeak mine own detraction, here abjure
	Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
	Which you weep for.
	[KENT is put in the stocks]
KENT	I say, yea.
	Which presently they read: on whose contents,
	The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
PETER	O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
	To the forfended place?
	Repast them with my blood.
	Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
	Help, help, ho!
HELENA	There's something in't,
	By holy marriage: when and where and how
	Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
	professes not keeping of oaths; in breaking 'em he
	false thanes,
	That he should hither come as this dire night,
	For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
	hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his
	And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
	friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
	Who hath for four or five removes come short
	And not impute this yielding to light love,
OSWALD	I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
	So beggars marry many.
	And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
LENNOX	                  Or so much as it needs,
	I dreamt my master and another fought,
KENT	Service.
	continually; 'tis her command.
	me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
	And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
	brother,	EDGAR.'
BENVOLIO	Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
	O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
	But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
	Only to herald thee into his sight,
	thee in grace and the other brings thee out.
	Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
	[Enter LAFEU]
	From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en
BERTRAM	Admiringly, my liege, at first
	Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
	Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
	In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
	Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
	To-morrow will I send.
	Turn from their office to black funeral;
	borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
MARCELLUS	Question it, Horatio.
	That ever yet they heard.
	With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
JULIET	Where is my mother! why, she is within;
	KING LEAR
Ghost	Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
	periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
	To give some labourers room.
	And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
	[Exit]
	And yet I know not how conceit may rob
	Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
	This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen,
MERCUTIO	Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
	[Exeunt]
	Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
	Thy arm may do thee justice: here is mine.
ROSS	You must have patience, madam.
GLOUCESTER	Let go my hand.
	And hath shipped me intil the land,
	I cannot daub it further.
DIANA	When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window:
	[Sings]
	This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
KENT	Sir, in good sooth, in sincere verity,
BENVOLIO	Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
	should find
LAERTES	I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
KING	Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
	And will he not come again?
	have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
	So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
QUEEN GERTRUDE	But not by him.
	done? It must be a very plausive invention that
HELENA	I pray you.
LADY MACBETH:
	Collected from all simples that have virtue
DIANA	And this was it I gave him, being abed.
Widow	I am her mother, sir, whose age and honour
	A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
	your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
	As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
	And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
	And makes himself an artificial night:
	For those that mingle reason with your passion
	Look there, look there!
	And even the like precurse of fierce events,
	How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
	To seek him here that means not to be found.
GONERIL	My most dear Gloucester!
	Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
	Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
	Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
	his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
First Lord	And grant it.
	And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
	[Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	though this knave came something saucily into the
	Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
HAMLET	Good sir, whose powers are these?
	Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
KING	My honour'd lady,
	'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
	Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
	[Re-enter LADY MACBETH]
	This prophecy Merlin shall make; for I live before his time.
Gentleman	No.
	deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
	From that particular fault: the dram of eale
	entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
	To prostitute our past-cure malady
	She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
	A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
KING CLAUDIUS	                  Let's further think of this;
	Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
	All unity on earth.
	out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
SAMPSON	Yes, better, sir.
	'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
	'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
HAMLET	And smelt so? pah!
	[Exit]
	Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
	With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
	responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
	A Porter.
	Briefly thyself remember: the sword is out
First Lord	He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking
	Such was the very armour he had on
	[Enter another Gentleman]
	there rust, and let me die.
	And what love can do that dares love attempt;
YOUNG SIWARD	his son.
	A good and virtuous nature may recoil
	Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
	Larded with many several sorts of reasons
	She could have run and waddled all about;
	Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
	Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
	KING LEAR
HELENA	When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
	of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves
	on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
	I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
KENT	Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain:
	And manifest experience had collected
	That birds would sing and think it were not night.
	To have the expense and waste of his revenues.
ROMEO	Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
SCENE IV	A plain in Denmark.
	He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour
Second Lord	Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
CAPULET	O, God ye god-den.
	The more I have, for both are infinite.
	Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
	When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
	[Exit]
MARCELLUS	|
	And wears upon his baby-brow the round
KENT	Oppressed nature sleeps:
	[Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER]
Nurse	Marry, bachelor,
	Weigh what convenience both of time and means
	Eye of newt and toe of frog,
	Blows in your face. I fear your disposition:
	Let not your hate encounter with my love
	Your wisdom best shall think.
	Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
	Not unaccompanied invest him only,
	You we first seize on.
	I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
GLOUCESTER	Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
	Two such opposed kings encamp them still
	live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
HORATIO	I did very well note him.
	Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
	How near's the other army?
	Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
	equivocal companion is this!
	Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
	This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
	Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
	Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
HELENA	Bless our poor virginity from underminers and
	Faith yes;
	be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
Fool	And thou hadst been set i' the stocks for that
	reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself
	[Exeunt, marching]
	And hit the woundless air. O, come away!
Messenger	Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
	And follows but for form,
	When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
KING LEAR	No, they cannot touch me for coining; I am the
ACT IV
	Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
	Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
	As thou didst leave it.
	shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
KING LEAR	And the creature run from the cur? There thou
	You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
COUNTESS	It must be an answer of most monstrous size that
	Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.
CORDELIA	Be better suited:
	And angels officed all: I will be gone,
	The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
	such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
HAMLET	Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
SEYTON	All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
Widow	Ay, marry, is't.
	Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Knight	He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
	(Third Musician:)
	This ignorant present, and I feel now
		  Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
ROMEO	Whither?
	And brokes with all that can in such a suit
	Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
	And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
	he had the honour to be the officer at a place there
ROMEO	I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
KING OF FRANCE	Come, my fair Cordelia.
	Whereof I know you are fraught; and put away
LAERTES	Know you the hand?
	Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
Second Lord	He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
KING CLAUDIUS	The very same.
	Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
	MACBETH
	That dares not undertake: he'll not feel wrongs
	of cohorts, nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
ACT V
	Which, for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise,
	In noise so rude against me?
	base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
	That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
	world; let his nobility remain in's court. I am for
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	For loving where you do: but if yourself,
	A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
LAFEU	Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived,
	And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
	about her heart. Is there any cause in nature that
	[Exit FRIAR LAURENCE]
	king; and take vanity the puppet's part against the
	We took this mattock and this spade from him,
	great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
BENVOLIO	Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
	But Ajax is their fool.
ROSENCRANTZ	My most dear lord!
LADY CAPULET	We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
	To muddy death.
HAMLET	How comes it? do they grow rusty?
GLOUCESTER	How fell you out? say that.
ROMEO	Meaning, to court'sy.
	Look you, I'll go pray.
	how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
BENVOLIO	In love?
	choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
ALL	Double, double toil and trouble;
	Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
	Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
ROSENCRANTZ	Believe what?
	We still have judgment here; that we but teach
Gentleman	Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
	Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
	could he dig without arms? I'll put another
	Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
	[Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears]
	I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
	Doth from my senses take all feeling else
	Do sorely ruffle; for many miles about
	This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
	See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
	Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
	cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
	the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
	Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
	Against our borrowing prayers.
	[Stocks brought out]
	French Lords, with Attendants]
	Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
	sings at grave-making?
	Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
ROSENCRANTZ	Most like a gentleman.
VOLTIMAND	|
	To come between our sentence and our power,
JULIET	A rhyme I learn'd even now
LENNOX	'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
ROMEO	Nay, that's not so.
MACBETH	Still it cried 'Sleep no more!' to all the house:
	Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
	And pray God's blessing into thy attempt:
	rarity redeems him.
	Whither I am going.
	|  noblemen of Scotland.
	If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
HAMLET	Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
	I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
HAMLET	Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
	This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
	That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
BENVOLIO	Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
	unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
	When your sweet self was got.
	And the rank poison of the old will die.
	Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
	Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
BENVOLIO	And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
	Of limping winter treads, even such delight
	Without debatement further, more or less,
HELENA	I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest,
	Not so big as a round little worm
KING	This ring was mine; I gave it his first wife.
	That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
	These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
HORATIO	[Within]	Heaven secure him!
	Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
	To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
	What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
	Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
	That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
	Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
	Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
	Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
HELENA	Tax of impudence,
OSRIC	                  Look to the queen there, ho!
Fool	Mark it, nuncle:
EDMUND	Come, come; when saw you my father last?
	your old virginity, is like one of our French
			  PAROLLES.'
	Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
	If all else fail, myself have power to die.
CAPULET	Go to, go to;
	I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
	And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
	With one that saw him die: who did report
	By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
	Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches
	Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
	those which have walked in their sleep who have died
Lords	Thanks to your majesty.
DIANA	                  Mine honour's such a ring:
	And shall continue our graces towards him.
	was hurt under your arm.
	finds it so.
	And he will make the face of heaven so fine
	I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
ROMEO	O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
	You shall offend him and extend his passion:
COUNTESS	This was your motive
HAMLET	So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
	The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
LAFEU	A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
	How chance the king comes with so small a train?
	his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
	Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
PETER	servant to Juliet's nurse.
	Or not at all.
	This doth not so, for she divideth us:
	More fierce and more inexorable far
ACT IV
MALCOLM	What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
FRANCISCO	a soldier.
	forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
MACBETH	What news more?
	Come, vial.
BENVOLIO	Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
	Let not light see my black and deep desires:
	That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
	May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
	To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
	Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
	Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
	Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
	to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
	'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
FRIAR JOHN	Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
	But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
HAMLET	Buz, buz!
	warlike resistance.
	It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
EDGAR	Or image of that horror?
	An therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
	[Exit]
ACT III
	Unto our gentle senses.
	Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'
LORD POLONIUS	The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
	Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
KING LEAR	Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air
MARCELLUS	It faded on the crowing of the cock.
	That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
	His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
	And prey on garbage.
HAMLET	     Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
Fool	And I'll go to bed at noon.
	Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
GLOUCESTER	Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
	That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
	Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
	And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
	Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more
	humility over the black gown of a big heart. I am
HAMLET	Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
	'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
CAPULET	Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
	hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so
Fool	Then, I prithee, be merry; thy wit shall ne'er go
	hai!
	Where every god did seem to set his seal,
	We, poising us in her defective scale,
	Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
	I drew to part them: in the instant came
First Soldier	I'll whisper with the general, and know his pleasure.
	Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
	And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
	I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
BANQUO	Look to the lady:
	That was and is the question of these wars.
	Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
	nether-stocks.
	To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
	That which cries 'Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
	KING LEAR
	From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
EDMUND	I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
GLOUCESTER	Sirrah, naked fellow,--
	And know their spring, their head, their
BERNARDO	'Tis here!
	her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it,
	That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
HAMLET	One.
	very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
	it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
	From me, whose love was of that dignity
	Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward
	figure: I am better than thou art now; I am a fool,
	And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
	Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
	But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
REGAN	How now, you dog!
	Than fly to others that we know not of?
	acutely. I will return perfect courtier; in the
ALBANY	                  Which is that adversary?
ROSENCRANTZ	I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
	No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
REGAN	|  daughters to Lear.
	It rains downright.
	In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
OPHELIA	My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
GLOUCESTER	To Dover.
	that's the end.
BANQUO	[Within]  Give us a light there, ho!
	Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
	[Enter POLONIUS]
LAERTES	A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
	Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
	melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
First Citizen	Up, sir, go with me;
	But let his disposition have that scope
	Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
REGAN	Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.
	Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
	Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
	meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
HORATIO	Heaven will direct it.
	[Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET]
LORD POLONIUS	Observe his inclination in yourself.
	His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
	That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow.
Fool	Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece; that's a wise
	To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
	Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
SCENE III	A room in Capulet's house.
	In further evil?
	Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
	His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
	Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
	Are with a most indissoluble tie
	Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
	Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
LAERTES	Come, one for me.
	Within the infant rind of this small flower
	that I have not ended yet.
	|  Franciscans.
	Yet what can it when one can not repent?
LAERTES	And so have I a noble father lost;
First Lord	With all my heart, my lord.
	Who is't that can inform me?
	Have humbled to all strokes: that I am wretched
OSRIC	Rapier and dagger.
	Should he sit here? This act persuades me
JULIET	No, no: but all this did I know before.
HAMLET	Alas, poor ghost!
	|
	gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
	My chastity's the jewel of our house,
	The untimely emptying of the happy throne
	The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
	Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
	[Exit]
Second Lord	You shall hear one anon.
COUNTESS	You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
	fool hath much pined away.
	Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
	dog's obeyed in office.
	|	What's the matter.
HELENA	I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
	Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
BERTRAM	And I will do so.
	[Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch]
	[Exit Sergeant, attended]
	withers are unwrung.
	Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
	Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
	should enjoy half his revenue,'--My son Edgar!
LAERTES	Must there no more be done?
EDMUND	Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
	Nothing in France, until he has no wife!
	[Exeunt severally; HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS]
BERTRAM	Will she away to-night?
	With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
	nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
DIANA	I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
SAMPSON	Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
Second Lord	How deep?
EDMUND	This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
	He shall live a man forbid:
First Lord	I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
	The letter was not nice but full of charge
HAMLET	I would not hear your enemy say so,
	Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
	Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
	Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
	Out of a casement.
	[Knocking within]
	To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
	As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
	'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
	Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	                  So he does indeed.
CORNWALL	Why dost thou call him a knave?  What's his offence?
	So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
	Bore the commission of my place and person;
	Most necessary 'tis that we forget
LADY CAPULET	Good night:
LADY CAPULET	wife to Capulet.
	Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
	Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
BERTRAM	Our interpreter does it well.
	As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
	Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
	(Third Servant:)
	when you find him out, you have him ever after.
	Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,
	My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
COUNTESS	Dost thou believe't?
	As e'er my conversation coped withal.
KENT	How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
	See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
	To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
	No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
HAMLET	How came he mad?
	Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
	I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
	[Exeunt all but MACBETH and LADY MACBETH]
	out of his swaddling-clouts.
	Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
	Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
	More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
	[EDGAR interposes]
	which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and,
	With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
	that I love passing well.
KING LEAR	He's a good fellow, I can tell you that;
	she wished me: alone she was, and did communicate
	Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
	[Exeunt]
LAERTES	A Norman was't?
	exclaim against their own succession?
	Thou mayst revenge. O slave!
	Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
	gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but
	The tyranny of the open night's too rough
	Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
	Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
	doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
	Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
KING CLAUDIUS	To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
	Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
	Received his love?
	fear of Mars before it and of his creatures, not
	Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
	If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
	him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him,
MACBETH	I do forget.
	For thy undaunted mettle should compose
	that he is?
	Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen;
Second Lord	Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
KING	We thank you, maiden;
	If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
	a French hose: come in, tailor; here you may
	Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
	With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
ROSS	                  Where is Duncan's body?
	PAROLLES retire]
Lords	What, my good lord?
Nurse	Look, look! O heavy day!
GUILDENSTERN	The king, sir,--
	[Exit]
	[They fight]
	losing of hope by time.
	And makes us rather bear those ills we have
	The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
MACBETH	We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it:
	I should have fatted all the region kites
	Gentleman attendant on Cordelia. (Gentleman:)
BERNARDO	|
	Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
	Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
	hath been seduced by them; and the misery is,
	I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
Clown	I do beg your good will in this case.
	[Exit]
	more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
	[Enter BERTRAM and DIANA]
	Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
	[Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD]
JULIET	The tears have got small victory by that;
	These dispositions, that of late transform you
Old Man	How now! Who's there?
	Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
	[Enter Widow and DIANA]
	Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and relieved,
HORATIO	Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
	Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
	And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	And bring in cloudy night immediately.
	[Exit]
Fool	May not an ass know when the cart
	ruttish: I pray you, sir, put it up again.
	But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
Doctor	Even so?
	Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
	That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
	I am for other business.
	I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
	No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
HAMLET	Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
	I have not heard examined.
	Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
KING CLAUDIUS	Do you think 'tis this?
	this, give these fellows some means to the king:
ACT II
	[Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR]
LORD POLONIUS	Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
	And gather by him, as he is behaved,
	I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
MACBETH	Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
	[Exeunt]
	|   [Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
	is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
	Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
GLOUCESTER	'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
	food for thee.
	[Servants bind him]
	We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
LORD POLONIUS	Mad for thy love?
	on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
	Lurk, lurk.
	To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
	four-inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a
	[Sennet. Enter KING LEAR, CORNWALL, ALBANY,
	Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
	There shall your master have a thousand loves,
	Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
	[Leaps into the grave]
	Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
	Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
	the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
	Directly seasons him his enemy.
	[Exit]
	And with a larger tether may he walk
	The treasury of life, when life itself
HORATIO	Not a jot more, my lord.
Gentleman	This I'll do for you.
	[Enter POLONIUS]
	leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
	treachers, by spherical predominance; drunkards,
	Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
	Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
	More than they were in note: amongst the rest,
BANQUO	Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
	be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
	On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
	They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
	[Reads]
	So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
COUNTESS	Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
	Live here in heaven and may look on her;
Widow	                  Lord, how we lose our pains!
	Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
	Unto the rigour of severest law.
	Of bell and burial.
	Send out more horses; skirr the country round;
	The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
	What safe and nicely I might well delay
	Without the sensible and true avouch
	Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
	To keep those many many bodies safe
	garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of
GLOUCESTER	What, is he dead?
CAITHNESS	Well, march we on,
	Come, go we to the king; our power is ready;
	Which weighs upon the heart?
KING	I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid;
HORATIO	Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
	Their manners are so apish.
	Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
	And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
	'One fair daughter and no more,
Ghost	Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
	in tears! The great dignity that his valour hath
	But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
	That all the miseries which nature owes
	[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave]
	Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
OPHELIA	       No more but so?
PAROLLES	Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the
	And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
	I prithee, do not strive against my vows:
	HAMLET
SIWARD	                  Had he his hurts before?
	To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
	Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
MACBETH	Of all men else I have avoided thee:
	By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
	The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep
	Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
	And our vain blows malicious mockery.
ROMEO	Here's goodly gear!
	There is a play to-night before the king;
	Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
	Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
	What might you think? No, I went round to work,
GLOUCESTER	Now, good sir, what are you?
HAMLET	That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
	knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
	Truly deliver.
ALBANY	Why, fare thee well: I will o'erlook thy paper.
	Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
	Time was, I did him a desired office,
	the worst'?
	My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
	I can create the rest: virtue and she
ABRAHAM	No better.
	Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
	There lives within the very flame of love
	So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
GREGORY	Do you quarrel, sir?
CAITHNESS	Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
	[Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First]
	That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
	Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
	many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
	And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
	Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,
	'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
	There, my lord.
ROSENCRANTZ	Good my lord!
	Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
	Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
	[Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES]
	This present object made probation.
	Apparitions.
	[Exeunt]
LORD POLONIUS	Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
	To help me sort such needful ornaments
	Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
	But never hope to know why I should marry her.
	My love should kindle to inflamed respect.
	Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
	This sword, this arm, and my best spirits, are bent
	beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
	The doors are open; and the surfeited grooms
ALBANY	How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:
HAMLET	For God's love, let me hear.
	Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
First Witch	Where the place?
KING LEAR	A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
HORATIO	Never believe it:
	[Enter Ghost]
	Thy token of reprieve.
	Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
	How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
GLOUCESTER	What are you there? Your names?
	Sir, in this audience,
LADY MACDUFF	Sirrah, your father's dead;
	But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
	The name, and all the additions to a king;
	learned by the perfectest report, they have more in
	Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
	Give you good morrow!
	Now marry in an instant.
	cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
	Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
	Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
MACBETH	[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
LADY MACDUFF	What, with worms and flies?
	the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
	ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
	That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
SCENE IV	The same. Hall in the palace.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alas, he's mad!
	Speak to me:
	'Then music with her silver sound
KING LEAR	How old art thou?
	the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
	And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
	France spreads his banners in our noiseless land;
First Soldier	Shall I set down your answer so?
	head-piece.
Servant	Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
	[Re-enter SEYTON]
	And find I am alone felicitate
Ghost	[Beneath]  Swear.
	That guilty creatures sitting at a play
	But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
	The day almost itself professes yours,
	Do better upon them.
	Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
HAMLET	Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
	Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
	Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
BERTRAM	Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
	Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
	For you have show'd me that which well approves
	'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
LENNOX	Ay, my good lord.
	they are married: but thou art too fine in thy
	I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl,
LADY MACBETH	What do you mean?
	to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
BANQUO	Too cruel any where.
	Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
	In censure of his seeming.
SCENE I	Paris. The KING's palace.
		   What woman's that?
Nurse	Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
	O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
	The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be,
First Clown	Very strangely, they say.
	And, like a rat without a tail,
	what we may be. God be at your table!
	His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
BENVOLIO	Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
	[Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR]
	Yet I will try the last. Before my body
	gave me nothing for't. Can you make no use of
First Player	'Anon he finds him
	I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
	[Enter Murderers]
	When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O my son, what theme?
	To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
Clown	Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it
First Servant	Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
	Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
Ghost	                  My hour is almost come,
	[Enter LADY CAPULET]
	Was foully snatch'd.
OSWALD	Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
	That I yet know not?
MERCUTIO	Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
REYNALDO	Good my lord!
	Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
Clown	Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
	He made you for a highway to my bed;
	And then down falls again.
	You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
	I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
HAMLET	How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
	But in our circumstance and course of thought,
	a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
	As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
	As love between them like the palm might flourish,
	To be your Valentine.
	time; have napkins enow about you; here
	By this encompassment and drift of question
	With five and twenty, Regan? said you so?
	When I behold--Seyton, I say!--This push
KENT	Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor
Porter	Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and
FRIAR LAURENCE	[Aside]  I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
	The multiplying villanies of nature
	There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
	The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
	It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
	Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness
COUNTESS	An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this,
	Of differences, which I least thought it fit
	go to bed.
PAROLLES	To any count, to all counts, to what is man.
MERCUTIO	Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
	king! in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer
	The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Messenger	News, madam;
	to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
	|
	[Advances]
	Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
HORATIO	Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
	sent to find those persons whose names are here
	And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
HELENA	Why then to-night
	I have served you ever since I was a child;
Old Man	Fellow, where goest?
	I do receive your offer'd love like love,
	Here's a petition from a Florentine,
CAPULET	Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
HELENA	If she be very well, what does she ail, that she's
	[Exeunt]
	SIWARD, MACDUFF, MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS,
ALBANY	Haste thee, for thy life.
	This is she--
Gentleman	Near and on speedy foot; the main descry
DIANA	I must be patient:
	And after slew herself.
	Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
	That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
SCENE	Scotland: England.
	Profit again should hardly draw me here.
	CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains, &c]
	o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
KENT	Nor no man else: all's cheerless, dark, and deadly.
	Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
	Take thou this note;
	And so, without more circumstance at all,
First Soldier	What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
	I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:
	How now! where's your master?
	knowledge and accordingly valiant.
	Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
	The least a death to nature.
	Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
	And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
	As if I had never been such.
	Is not to stir without great argument,
	Are lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.
	Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
EDGAR	Frateretto calls me; and tells me
	What think you on't?
DUNCAN	Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
	The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
	By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
	[Enter GONERIL]
	Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
LADY MACBETH	Here's the smell of the blood still: all the
	hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding queen
	Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
	By self-unable motion: therefore dare not
MALCOLM	Be't their comfort
	As ample as myself.
	The galloping of horse: who was't came by?
	[Flourish. Exeunt]
	in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
	And then in post he came from Mantua
KING	Make choice; and, see,
	The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
	And both shall cease, without your remedy.
	I stay too long: but here my father comes.
JULIET	Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
	Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
	Come, go with me.
	Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
	I have almost slipp'd the hour.
	Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
	Lives in the English court, and is received
	[Exit]
	Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
KING LEAR	This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
OSWALD	Madam, here comes my lord.
	How now! what art thou?
	That to the use of actions fair and good
MACBETH	Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
LADY MACBETH	All our service
Nurse	God in heaven bless her!
GLOUCESTER	His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
	birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are not
MERCUTIO	That's as much as to say, such a case as yours
	great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
	But even for want of that for which I am richer,
	There is nothing done, if he return the conqueror:
COUNTESS	Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of
	To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
OSWALD	steward to Goneril.
BERTRAM	May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
	Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumour
PAROLLES	My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly
	Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
	Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
	When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
ROMEO	Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
	Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
	time: after your death you were better have a bad
	Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
KING	I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful:
	A damned saint, an honourable villain!
	For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
	Return you to my sister.
	'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
GUILDENSTERN	Prison, my lord!
HAMLET	Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
		     you, to your rights:
	Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
LADY CAPULET	Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
	Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
	Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
EDMUND	I shall attend you presently at your tent.
CORNWALL	See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
	|                   Ay, by heaven, my lord.
	What will hap more to-night, safe 'scape the king!
DONALBAIN	What is amiss?
	Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
	Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
LORD POLONIUS	I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
	Against the undivulged pretence I fight
	[Drum and Colours]
	Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
LADY MACBETH	Now.
HAMLET	From top to toe?
	stuff his suspicion more fully.--I will persevere in
HELENA	But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
GONERIL	Milk-liver'd man!
Steward	Pardon me, madam:
	Herself poised with herself in either eye:
	To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
	knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
	not to be recovered.
	Improper for a slave.
DIANA	Do you know he promised me marriage?
	To bring but five and twenty: to no more
	To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
	Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
	For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
	To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
	quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
	Although the last, not least; to whose young love
	that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
	That are within the note of expectation
	[Exit]
	be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
	[Re-enter KING LEAR, with CORDELIA dead in his arms;
	You are no maiden, but a monument:
	for the most part are capable of nothing but
	I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
	That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief.
	thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
OSWALD	I never gave him any:
	LENNOX, and Soldiers]
	being so proper.
	say an old man is twice a child.
	And that shall lend a kind of easiness
	Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
	Friend, look to 't.
SCENE IV	Outside Macbeth's castle.
	most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
	Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
	In your dear highness' love.
	From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
PARIS	Come you to make confession to this father?
	The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
	Good night, good night! parting is such
	A fellow to it.
	[Enter HAMLET and Players]
KENT	Good king, that must approve the common saw,
	Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
	Prithee, allow the wind.
ROSENCRANTZ	[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
	with HECATE]
	So many folds of favour. Sure, her offence
	For there was never yet fair woman but she made
DIANA	I found it not.
	We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
GLOUCESTER	But where is he?
	At no time broke my faith, would not betray
ROMEO	Why, then is my pump well flowered.
	I have to use: thy frank election make;
	him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
	Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
	What law does vouch mine own.
	And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
Nurse	Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
	But the Norweyan lord surveying vantage,
	That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
	Go, sirrah, trudge about
	thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.
PARIS	Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
ALBANY	He knows not what he says: and vain it is
	Each small annexment, petty consequence,
	[Exeunt]
	Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
HORATIO	It would have much amazed you.
	With true-love showers.
	Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
REYNALDO	servant to Polonius.
	recovered the king, and undone me. I have wedded
	Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
	Excitements of my reason and my blood,
	My art is not past power nor you past cure.
BANQUO	                  What, can the devil speak true?
	(Captain:)
	suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
Clown	By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
	Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
ROMEO	'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
	[Exeunt all except HAMLET]
	[Exit]
	I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
	From off the battlements of yonder tower;
	Are to your throne and state children and servants,
	With his surcease success; that but this blow
	O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
ROSENCRANTZ	Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
	That has done worthy service.
	some of all professions that go the primrose
	I never gave you aught.
	Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
REGAN	What, did my father's godson seek your life?
	and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
	To have thee crown'd withal.
	(Second Gentleman:)
	(Third Watchman:)
	I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
	With musics of all sorts and songs composed
	And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
	Who lies i' the second chamber?
	for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
	'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
LADY CAPULET	Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
DIANA	'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
HORATIO	'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts
	[Makes a pass through the arras]
CAPULET	Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
	[Alarum within]
	Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
	marry, yet 'tis a withered pear: will you anything with it?
	Who 'twas that so endured, with his strong arms
	To know our further pleasure in this case,
PAROLLES	A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
	a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
	Come here for physic.
CAPULET	Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
MARCELLUS	You shall not go, my lord.
	they hold up Adam's profession.
	A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
	Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
	And yet I would it were to give again.
	that thou't scarce worth.
	Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
	MACBETH
HAMLET	Sir, I lack advancement.
	should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
	an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
	the harder: ch'ill be plain with you.
	No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
	two of the house of the Montagues.
SCENE I	A heath.
	To this great stage of fools: this a good block;
	her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not'
BENVOLIO	But new struck nine.
	Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
	Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
	And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
Nurse	Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
	widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely
	Than two tens to a score.
	Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
	That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
	Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he
	I will give you the minstrel.
	[Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colours,
	much further;
	I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
COUNTESS	What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
	Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
	I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy,
	That makes calamity of so long life;
	[Exit]
	His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
	god, that would not extend his might, only where
	I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
	And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
ACT IV
MARCELLUS	|
	Hark, do you hear the sea?
	With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
	[They prepare to play]
	Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
	The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
	Whose beauty did astonish the survey
	This office to you.
	Too terrible for the ear: the times have been,
PAROLLES	What the devil should move me to undertake the
	For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
	[Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN,
	[pausing]
	Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,
ANGUS	Now does he feel
ACT III
	at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
	Good night.
	pity him, they took from me the use of mine own
	What great creation and what dole of honour
LADY CAPULET	Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
	[Re-enter Players with recorders]
PAROLLES	Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
	[Enter Citizens, &c]
	That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
	Do not believe him. O, behold this ring,
	Whereto I have invited many a guest,
MALCOLM	What's the newest grief?
	there's money for thee.
PRINCE	A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
	must produce for an interpreter.
	I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
	And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
	Doubt that the sun doth move;
	That which I durst not speak; his present gift
LAFEU	These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
	These hands are not more like.
MACBETH	She should have died hereafter;
	Must be provided for: and you shall put
COUNTESS	But think you, Helen,
JULIET	Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
HAMLET	If it assume my noble father's person,
ROSS	Ay, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
	must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
	OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING
	When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage,
DIANA	I never gave it him.
	That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
HAMLET	Bid the players make haste.
	Is it not monstrous that this player here,
First Servant	If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
EDGAR	Know, my name is lost;
	And hurt my brother.
	And let us once again assail your ears,
CORDELIA	[Aside]  What shall Cordelia do?
	Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
KING	The story then goes false, you threw it him
	Which I have told thee of my father's death:
	His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
	For here we need it not.
	Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
MARCELLUS	It is offended.
	Either both or none.
GLOUCESTER	Ay, my good lord.
	Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
	Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
	Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
	To thee a woman's services are due:
	Come hissing in upon 'em,--
	Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
HAMLET	But where was this?
	And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
	That wants the means to lead it.
	And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
LADY CAPULET	You are too hot.
	Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
	him. But to answer you as you would be understood;
	The state of your affection; for your passions
	KING LEAR
	As you owe to your wife.
	In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
	Come, my good lord, away.
	expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
ROSS	Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
	And call the noblest to the audience.
ACT I
Gentlewoman	I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
	her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
ACT IV
KENT	I do profess to be no less than I seem; to serve
	His wits begin to unsettle.
	ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,
	Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
CAPULET	But Montague is bound as well as I,
	[To PAROLLES]
	Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
	too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
	The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
PAROLLES	Lose our drum! well.
	Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
	And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
	A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
DIANA	If you shall marry,
	to undertake this business, which he knows is not to
	good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
	Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
	Which thou hast perpendicularly fell:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Why, how now, Hamlet!
	And thou art wedded to calamity.
	'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own
	(Gentleman:)
	That keep the word of promise to our ear,
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
GONERIL	I have been worth the whistle.
	Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
	In three our kingdom: and 'tis our fast intent
JULIET	Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
	With my confineless harms.
	An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
	The subject of our watch.
	No teeth for the present. Get thee gone: to-morrow
	That it went hand in hand even with the vow
KING CLAUDIUS	Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
	You tallow-face!
FRIAR LAURENCE	Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
	[Second trumpet]
COUNTESS	Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
	To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
CORNWALL	Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
KENT	Sir, I do know you;
	O my dear mother, do I see you living?
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
	Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st,
	Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
JULIET	Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
	When I have show'd the unfitness,--
	Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
	Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
MERCUTIO	Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
ACT V
	What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
	It is no vicious blot, murder, or foulness,
ROSS	Sir, amen.
	And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
	To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
	From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
OSRIC	Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
	Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
COUNTESS	Haste you again.
	Here's to thy health.
	His access to me.
	REGAN, and CORDELIA]
	Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
First Witch	Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
	Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.
	If ever you disturb our streets again,
	A very serious business calls on him.
	But, if you hold it fit, after the play
	That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
ACT I
	These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
	bloody succeeding. My master!
	[Pointing at OSWALD]
	Unless she gave it to yourself in bed,
	An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
	lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
	All causes shall give way: I am in blood
	you deny your griefs to your friend.
Chorus	Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
	But go at once.
GLOUCESTER	I am sorry for thee, friend; 'tis the duke's pleasure,
JULIET	Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
KENT	Give me thy hand. Who's there?
GLOUCESTER	Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
	southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
	To show my duty in your coronation,
	REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants]
KING LEAR	What hast thou been?
	Bear hence this body and attend our will:
REGAN	To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
	O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	It may be, very likely.
	Give me thy hand; come on.
	Than stands on any shoulder that I see
LAFEU	You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you,
	Whether they live or die.
	Is this the man you speak of?
	[Exeunt]
	Their hands and faces were an badged with blood;
	And then will I be general of your woes,
	is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when
Clown	A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next
MARCELLUS	|
	That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
	Mark the high noises; and thyself bewray,
Sergeant	As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
HAMLET	They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
PRINCE	Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
GREGORY	No.
	Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
	Thou losest here, a better where to find.
	[Alarums. Enter MACBETH]
EDGAR	[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at
	Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit:
	shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
	[Enter OSWALD]
MACBETH	Hark!
	And my appointments have in them a need
	sir!' I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
	'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
HAMLET	You are welcome.
	Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
	tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
HAMLET	Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
CAPULET	                  Peace, you mumbling fool!
	Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
	Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
SCENE I	A public place.
	Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
	to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
	When it proved otherwise?
	As badness would desire.
	Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
	There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
	He has borne all things well: and I do think
	And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
	Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
	He wants the natural touch: for the poor wren,
	We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
	Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
	That sees into the bottom of my grief?
	When you are dead, you should be such a one
	in my tent.
ALBANY	Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
LADY MACBETH	Alack, I am afraid they have awaked,
	In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
REGAN	I know your lady does not love her husband;
	That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
	for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
Clown	The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of
	Had from the conversation of my thoughts
	Of noble having and of royal hope,
	Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
	Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
PRINCE	Look, and thou shalt see.
	With such a number. What, must I come to you
	As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
	Disguising what they are.
First Soldier	Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
First Soldier	But wilt thou faithfully?
	Might have been mine! only I have left to say,
	Is as 'twere born so.
	Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
Captain	'Tis true, my lords, he did.
	Cold death aside, and with the other sends
	[Dies]
	[Exit]
	But, you must know, your father lost a father;
	As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
LAFEU	an old lord.
	Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
	the dirt: thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown,
	The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
	Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
	I have sworn 't.
	(First Apparition:)
	Where he bestows himself?
	But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
Second Lord	Is it possible he should know what he is, and be
GLOUCESTER	O, madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
	And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
	LAURENCE, with a lantern, crow, and spade]
	lord of Gloucester.
	fool: drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will
	Put your dread pleasures more into command
	Wives, and others]
BENVOLIO	O noble prince, I can discover all
	That it doth hate what gets it.
	Now, fellow, fare thee well.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	I' the sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
	In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
	And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
	Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
	I could not answer in that course of honour
	And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
	O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
	The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king.
OSRIC	A hit, a very palpable hit.
LORD POLONIUS	Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
	body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear;
	and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
	As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
	a heavy case, your purse in a light; yet you see how
Clown	I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
	Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
	Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
First Clown	Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
	[Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray;
	This is the very painting of your fear:
	the danger is in standing to't; that's the loss of
	To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
	Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
	[Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him]
	[Exit]
GLOUCESTER	Sir, this young fellow's mother could: whereupon
	worth another word, else I'ld call you knave. I leave you.
	That presently you take our way for home;
	Which is not tomb enough and continent
Second Lord	Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
Fool	Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
	It burneth in the Capel's monument.
CORDELIA	O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
	That I must call't in question.
	Is the main motive of our preparations,
	Which gives the stern'st good-night. He is about it:
Third Murderer	Hark! I hear horses.
	MACBETH
		        So, gentlemen,
	Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
	That chase thee from thy country and expose
	In neither aught, or in extremity.
Sergeant	Doubtful it stood;
	our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
	If thou be merciful,
JULIET	Blister'd be thy tongue
	daughters thy mothers: for when thou gavest them
LAFEU	Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
	To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
KING LEAR	[Rising]  Never, Regan:
	one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
PAROLLES	[To BERTRAM]  Use a more spacious ceremony to the
	And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
	[Re-enter LAFEU, with HELENA]
	My father watches: O sir, fly this place;
	And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
	Of one I danced withal.
	what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
	Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
	And keep in-a-door,
HAMLET	Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
	Of his true state.
PRINCE	And for that offence
	Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
	tell my daughter I would speak with her.
	the--No; I know it begins with some other
	Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
	for him, that he hath wrote this to feel my
	the Florentine?
	Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
HELENA	That you are well restored, my lord, I'm glad:
HAMLET	Then came each actor on his ass,--
	and says little; to fear judgment; to fight when I
	Will you yet hold? How came my man i' the stocks?
	EDGAR, Captain, and others following]
	Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
	very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be
MONTAGUE	O thou untaught! what manners is in this?
	O, that she knew she were!
	Into a madman's rags; to assume a semblance
	Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
	[Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool]
	[Aside]
	great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
	Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
	The time will not allow the compliment
PAROLLES	Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
FRANCISCO	I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
	Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
ACT I
ACT III
	[Singing]
ALBANY	The let-alone lies not in your good will.
	Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
	Who's there?
MACDUFF	What should he be?
	That you are well acquainted with yourself,
	shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
	My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
	And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
	Stands not within the prospect of belief,
	say him nay.
	To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
	KING LEAR
	Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
	And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
First Clown	To't.
	Till the prince came, who parted either part.
	In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
	Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
	'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
KING CLAUDIUS	A Norman.
	Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see
	So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
	But that I told him, the revenging gods
	The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
	They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
	She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
KENT	I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
JULIET	[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
SIWARD	We learn no other but the confident tyrant
BERTRAM	A plague upon him! muffled! he can say nothing of
ACT I
	Have to the full appeach'd.
	There is no shuffling, there the action lies
	Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
	(Third Apparition:)
	draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
First Gentleman	'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, which his
BALTHASAR	I dare not, sir
	To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
	And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
	The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
	[Exeunt]
	Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
PAROLLES	Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
GLOUCESTER	O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world
	Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
	Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
	to question them further, they made themselves air,
	If all could so become it.
	I doubt not of his temperance.
	She might have been o'erta'en; and yet she writes,
KING LEAR	Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing.
First Soldier	Acordo linta.
	But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
	My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight.
	Shall find thee full of labours.
HELENA	Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport.
	question her. God save you, pilgrim! whither are you bound?
	When in your motion you are hot and dry--
	To-morrow, or at further space, to appear
	Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
LENNOX	What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
	When I should take possession of the bride,
	Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
	Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
	[Tucket within]
	Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
	what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES,
	O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
	Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
MACBETH	Thou losest labour:
Gentleman	Give me your hand: have you no more to say?
	Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
	And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,
LAERTES	Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
	And but thou love me, let them find me here:
	this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
First Lord	Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa
		       What is that noise?
	that is honest; to converse with him that is wise,
	May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
KING LEAR	The bow is bent and drawn, make from the shaft.
	the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
	out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
	Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
First Soldier	Bosko chimurcho.
	And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out:
	Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
	Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
	And do not interrupt me in my course.
	With every gale and vary of their masters,
	With us to watch the minutes of this night;
	Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
MACBETH	I'll call upon you straight: abide within.
Servant	There is ten thousand--
	Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
	But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
	I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
	And nothing more, may fitly like your grace,
	'Tis hard to reconcile.
	Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
CAPULET	No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
	Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;
	As harbingers preceding still the fates
	father will hence to-night.
	That no compunctious visitings of nature
REGAN	'Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
	This warlike volley.
	That almost freezes up the heat of life:
	I am from humble, he from honour'd name;
	To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
	At her life's rate.
HECATE	O well done! I commend your pains;
	If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
COUNTESS	Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
	If I did stay to look on his intents.
COUNTESS	Why should he be killed?
	But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
	Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
	Cordelia leaves you: I know you what you are;
	person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
	In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
KING CLAUDIUS	Pluck them asunder.
	of Kent in Germany.
	I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
	[Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house,
	of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just
	When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
	Oft expectation fails and most oft there
	I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
MACBETH	Well, say, sir.
	flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
	his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
Third Witch	Harpier cries 'Tis time, 'tis time.
	I do remember an apothecary,--
	array. Tom's a-cold.
	(First Musician:)
	[They play]
	Fond done, done fond,
PAROLLES	Why under Mars?
PAROLLES	What one, i' faith?
HAMLET	[Advancing]     What is he whose grief
HAMLET	Hold off your hands.
	'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
	[Nurse calls within]
	drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher
	These dead men's tombs.
	This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
HAMLET	This?
	As one near death to those that wish him live:
	As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
	[A cry of women within]
	The corse they follow did with desperate hand
SCENE VI	Another room in the castle.
	but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
JULIET	Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
	when she put 'em i' the paste alive; she knapped 'em
	And that which should accompany old age,
	As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites,
	And I do think, or else this brain of mine
	Come, some music!
	Murder of Gonzago?
	No, I will weep no more. In such a night
	Like monsters of the deep.
LORD POLONIUS	What a treasure had he, my lord?
Gentleman	Help, help, O, help!
	What we are come about, and by no means
BERTRAM	Well, what would you say?
	Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
	That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
	But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confined, bound in
	These hairs, which thou dost ravish from my chin,
HORATIO	What is it ye would see?
	taught to find me? The search, sir, was profitable;
KING LEAR	I did her wrong--
MACBETH	                  When?
	darkness; alias, the devil.
	Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
	As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
	judgment, your highness is not entertained with that
	wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
	or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
	But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
	the king, as to be--
	is a strumpet. What's the news?
Widow	It is reported that he has taken their greatest
	That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
	Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
MERCUTIO	Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
	higher, or return again into France?
	you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
	Cannot be border'd certain in itself;
	Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
	in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
	That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
CORDELIA	So young, my lord, and true.
	And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
LADY MACBETH	My hands are of your colour; but I shame
		  Now I am alone.
	O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
	Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
HELENA	What's his name?
	Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
	Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
REGAN	Prescribe not us our duties.
	O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
HAMLET	For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
	Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
	[Exit]
BERTRAM	O my Parolles, they have married me!
	The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
LORD POLONIUS	Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
	She turns to favour and to prettiness.
SAMPSON	Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
KING	As thou art a knave, and no knave. What an
PAROLLES	I am so full of businesses, I cannot answer thee
	To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Alas, look here, my lord.
	Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
	[Exit]
CAPULET	Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
	Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
KENT	This is not altogether fool, my lord.
	speak one to another; so we seem to know, is to
	poor creature of earth.
	Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me;
MALCOLM	It is myself I mean: in whom I know
	One of my fellows had the speed of him,
KING LEAR	Ay, so I think.
	Even so it was with me when I was young:
LAERTES	                  He is justly served;
KING	I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
	his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
KING CLAUDIUS	Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
	o' the song: would God would serve the world so all
DIANA	Ay, so you serve us
GLOUCESTER	I serve you, madam:
	Loves for his own ends, not for you.
	Uproar the universal peace, confound
	Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
	the body. The king is a thing--
	|  Arm'd, my lord.
	ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
	More sinn'd against than sinning.
	Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
	come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
	|             My lord, from head to foot.
	I leave you to your wisdom.
	in, equivocator.
	not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
	Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
	[Reads]
	And thrice again, to make up nine.
GONERIL	[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
GUILDENSTERN	Believe me, I cannot.
	That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Third Musician	Faith, I know not what to say.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Welcome, then.
	Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
LADY MACBETH	Yet here's a spot.
HAMLET	Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
	Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
	Shall harm Macbeth.
Clown	Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
	We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
	For you and I are past our dancing days:
	Yet it shall be tempest-tost.
Gentlewoman	Pray God it be, sir.
OPHELIA	What means this, my lord?
Gentleman	O, here he is: lay hand upon him. Sir,
	Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
Doctor	I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
	How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
	This night's great business into my dispatch;
	Among nine bad if one be good,
	A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
ANGUS	Near Birnam wood
	Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
	What are you, sir?
GONERIL	Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
	Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
EDGAR	O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason in madness!
MACBETH	The labour we delight in physics pain.
LAFEU	Nay, come your ways.
First Lord	His love and wisdom,
	To stand on either part.
	[Enter PAROLLES]
	How easy is it, then! Your constancy
	Must be a faith that reason without miracle
	excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
	An absolute trust.
	[To the Fool]
	Your favours nor your hate.
Doctor	So please your majesty
HAMLET	Ay, sir, what of him?
	with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and
LAFEU	Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
ROMEO	Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
	That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
	This marvel to you.
	Each jealous of the other, as the stung
	Can I demand.
	Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
	Our will became the servant to defect;
BENVOLIO	Romeo, away, be gone!
	When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
ACT V
	The bloody proclamation to escape,
	Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
HAMLET	A whole one, I.
	No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
	me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let
	Conspirant 'gainst this high-illustrious prince;
	Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
	'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
	Hath pluck'd him after.
	Does lecher in my sight.
Fool	Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
	And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
	As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
	[Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO]
	liberty, these are the only men.
	And points at them for his.
	And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Servant	I know not, sir.
GONERIL	Mean you to enjoy him?
	Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
FRANCISCO	Bernardo has my place.
	Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
	It weeps, it bleeds; and each new day a gash
	That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
SCENE III	A park near the palace.
	strange fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems
YOUNG SIWARD	What is thy name?
	Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
	They were given me by Claudio; he received them
	Shoughs, water-rugs and demi-wolves, are clept
	lord: whom I serve above is my master.
	[Exeunt other Servants]
MERCUTIO	This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
	Then they for sudden joy did weep,
	The insolence of office and the spurns
	Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
PAROLLES	Sir, for a quart d'ecu he will sell the fee-simple
	That to Laertes I forgot myself;
	To lay the blame upon her own despair,
	Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
	[Exit HELENA]
	Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
DIANA	Sir, much like
	Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
BERTRAM	If you shall prove
	When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
GONERIL	You see how full of changes his age is; the
	I'll come to you anon.
	Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
HAMLET	What did you enact?
	entertainment.
KING LEAR	Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
	Go with your impositions, I am yours
	their noses are led by their eyes but blind men; and
Fool	Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst
	[Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others]
	Which twain have brought her to.
LORD POLONIUS	Come, sirs.
	O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
	with us to the king.
	[To Servant, giving a paper]
	'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
LENNOX	Good morrow, noble sir.
	O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
	If it be man's work, I'll do 't.
	Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
	The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
	Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
	Servants with dishes and service, and pass over the
	[Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET]
	But he, his own affections' counsellor,
	Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
	[Enter Priest, &c. in procession; the Corpse of
First Soldier	Well, is this captain in the duke of Florence's camp?
	Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
	Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
	Our blood to us, this to our blood is born;
ROMEO	How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
PAROLLES	I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris,
	surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he
	sigh like Tom o' Bedlam. O, these eclipses do
	Stick deep; and in his royalty of nature
	[Enter COUNTESS and Steward]
	Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
	Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
	To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
	[Exeunt]
	To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
FRIAR LAURENCE	For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
	Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
First Player	I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
	And enterprises of great pith and moment
HORATIO	I beseech you.
	If that his majesty would aught with us,
	Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
	Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
	Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
	And, like a man to double business bound,
	Your servant Kent: Where is your servant Caius?
	Hath in him closed; whereby he does receive
LADY MACBETH	A kind good night to all!
	Is now urged on you.
	QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ,
	To punish me with this and this with me,
LORD POLONIUS	What follows, then, my lord?
	Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
	My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
	Revenges burn in them; for their dear causes
Second Servant	Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
	Our foster-nurse of nature is repose,
	star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some
	scratched.
SCENE VI	Forres. The palace.
ACT V
	The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
	And here is come to do some villanous shame
	And sleep in spite of thunder.
	Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
	him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
	shall read it in--what do you call there?
SCENE II	A field between the two camps.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
	And my more-having would be as a sauce
	found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are
	Of the unworthiest siege.
	A very, very--pajock.
MACDUFF	                  I'll make so bold to call,
Nurse	I know not.
	And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes;
	That can make vile things precious. Come,
	[Exit Messenger]
	Not cast aside so soon.
PAROLLES	Just, you say well; so would I have said.
	The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
	laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
	we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
	Sleep shall neither night nor day
First Lord	We shall, noble captain.
EDGAR	Look up, my lord.
	Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
	Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
LENNOX	Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your highness?
GLOUCESTER	My dear lord,
	Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
DUKE	Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
	Promised no less to them?
	I am mightily abused. I should e'en die with pity,
	A Captain employed by Edmund. (Captain:)
	So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
FRIAR LAURENCE	You say you do not know the lady's mind:
FRANCISCO	Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
	Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
	His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
First Musician	What a pestilent knave is this same!
	Detains him from Cordelia.
	Against the proclamation of thy passion,
ROSENCRANTZ	Neither, my lord.
	In such a gorgeous palace!
	Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
	Would murder as it fell.
Nurse	[Within]  Madam!
	After the prompter, for our entrance:
HORATIO	I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
	[Knocking]
	The devil to his fellow and delight
	My master knows not but I am gone hence;
OPHELIA	I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
	Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
	In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
GLOUCESTER	                  Ay, my good lord.
	Reverbs no hollowness.
HAMLET	So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
	And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
REGAN	Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
	Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
MERCUTIO	O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
	Over the nasty sty,--
EDMUND	In honour'd love.
	Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
	he's a cat to me.
HAMLET	[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
	Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
	so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
	Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
	This is thy sheath;
HORATIO	A piece of him.
	And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
	Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket]
	To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
	Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know,
KING LEAR	To thee and thine hereditary ever
	That I must love a loathed enemy.
	Whose high respect and rich validity
Third Murderer	'Tis he.
	The British powers are marching hitherward.
First Murderer	Though our lives--
	I'll send her straight away: to-morrow
	Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
	would of--I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
	And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
	make title to as much love as she finds: there is
	Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
KING LEAR	What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
Doctor	How came she by that light?
HAMLET	Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
	For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
	The future in the instant.
	Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
	[Exeunt some of the Servants]
HAMLET	Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
	Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
	Are punish'd with: the king must take it ill,
	And then to have a wretched puling fool,
	Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
	Murderers, following her]
	Each way and move. I take my leave of you:
	And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
	[Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO]
	The lamentable change is from the best;
	be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
	Against the churches; though the yesty waves
	For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down;
MACBETH	Bring them before us.
	Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
	I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
EDGAR	Shall I hear from you anon?
KING LEAR	Take heed, sirrah; the whip.
	As my great patron thought on in my prayers,--
	We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
HAMLET	My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
	Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
	For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
	pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he
ROMEO	Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
	To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
	[Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
HAMLET	                  And fix'd his eyes upon you?
	God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
BERTRAM	What would you have?
	Pursued my life.
	And like a neutral to his will and matter,
	My will to her consent is but a part;
	Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
Third Murderer	Macbeth.
PAROLLES	I would the cutting of my garments would serve the
	court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all
LAERTES	Lay her i' the earth:
	Slain by his servant, going to put out
LORD POLONIUS	This is too long.
LADY MACDUFF	Ay, that he was.
	Came then into my mind; and yet my mind
	Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
	Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
	As it hath fated her to be my motive
	[Exit an Officer]
	You have now the good advantage of the night:
	gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,
KING	Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
BERTRAM	A pox on him, he's a cat still.
MACBETH	The table's full.
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	How in my words soever she be shent,
	To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets:
	This must be known; which, being kept close, might
BENVOLIO	Stop there, stop there.
	good quarrel, and the law on my side.
	have me whipped for lying; and sometimes I am
	Depart again: here, here will I remain
	Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
	Hath had no notice of these accidents;
FRIAR LAURENCE	God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
REGAN	My sister may receive it much more worse,
	A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
LEAR	king of Britain  (KING LEAR:)
ROMEO	Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
	That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
	Can tell so much: shall Banquo's issue ever
First Murderer	You made it known to us.
	Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds,
	Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
	And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Gentleman	'Tis so, they are afoot.
	[Enter, with drum and colours, CORDELIA, Doctor, and Soldiers]
	That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
OSWALD	Help, ho! murder! murder!
	Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
BERTRAM	Hers it was not.
	There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
ROSS	Alas, the day!
Gentleman	None but the fool; who labours to out-jest
	glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue;
	poll; half of the which dare not shake snow from off
MERCUTIO	A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
	The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
HAMLET	I am glad to see you well:
	the death of the king's disease.
	brought it?
BERTRAM	Here, take my ring:
	Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
	To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
	Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
	inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where
	For even the day before, she broke her brow:
	[Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded]
	'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
	Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
MACDUFF	Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
Second Lord	Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his
KING CLAUDIUS	But where is he?
	Her husband being alive. Now then we'll use
	It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
KING CLAUDIUS	Thou still hast been the father of good news.
	How now! where's that mongrel?
ALBANY	Where have you hid yourself?
	Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;
	Sits in a foggy cloud, and stays for me.
	Liver of blaspheming Jew,
KING CLAUDIUS	Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
LADY MACBETH	What beast was't, then,
	Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
	For never was a story of more woe
	Hanging a golden stamp about their necks,
CORNWALL	This is some fellow,
	For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
	I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
JULIET	To answer that, I should confess to you.
HAMLET	I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
	To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
	That writes them all alike: and so of men.
	To scorn at our solemnity this night.
	Yet to be known shortens my made intent:
HAMLET	What woman, then?
	[Enter EDMUND, with a letter]
CORDELIA	Nothing, my lord.
	hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
PAROLLES	I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
	They had begun the play--I sat me down,
PARIS	Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
	spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
	Put on their instruments. Receive what cheer you may:
	your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
	dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
	it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath
	She hath abated me of half my train;
Gentleman	What's your will?
	And will he not come again?
	The safer sense will ne'er accommodate
	With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
MACBETH	Came they not by you?
	[To OPHELIA]
	condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
MACBETH	I will be satisfied: deny me this,
MENTEITH	Who then shall blame
	Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
	Since that respects of fortune are his love,
PAROLLES	A drum now of the enemy's,--
LORD POLONIUS	[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
	As notes whose faculties inclusive were
	So in approof lives not his epitaph
	Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
	My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
HELENA	Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
	When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
	I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
	[Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD and YOUNG
	That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
	Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
	He does well to commend it himself; there are no
	He is dead and gone, lady,
COUNTESS	Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
	[Exit Regan, led]
HAMLET	What, the fair Ophelia!
	Most free in his reply.
	In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
EDMUND	Persuade me to the murder of your lordship;
	Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils, &c]
	am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
	And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
	O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
	To see our widower's second marriage-day.
	Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
	As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
Second Soldier	Captain, I will.
	duke is strong.' What say you to that?
	That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
	(First Citizen:)
	Which made me think a man a worm: my son
	Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
JULIET	Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
KING CLAUDIUS	If it be so, Laertes--
	Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
	What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
	And must needs taste his folly.
First Lord	I begin to love him for this.
	And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
ROSS	Why, well.
	[Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs,
	Shakes so my single state of man that function
	Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
	Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
	le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere
	This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
	To take the basest and most poorest shape
Doctor	Ay, sir; there are a crew of wretched souls
	Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
	horns together, like any deer i' the herd.
HELENA	Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
	Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
COUNTESS	I would I had not known him; it was the death of the
	blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
	Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
	From her material sap, perforce must wither
	That, by the help of these--with Him above
KING CLAUDIUS	I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
	And not where I had aim'd them.
OPHELIA	O heavenly powers, restore him!
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
ROSENCRANTZ	Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
	the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
Clown	You're shallow, madam, in great friends; for the
	My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
	Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
	That in their kind they speak it: only sin
	'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
	But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
REGAN	Good sir, to the purpose.
BALTHASAR	No, my good lord.
	When slanders do not live in tongues;
	Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
HORATIO	Well, sit we down,
Son	What is a traitor?
	tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
	For, as I am a man, I think this lady
	and though the devil lead the measure, such are to
	That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
	As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
	Will laugh a siege to scorn: here let them lie
KING LEAR	I gave you all--
	Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
	Whereof the world takes note: come, come, disclose
PARIS	God shield I should disturb devotion!
BERTRAM	It might; but it is not now.
	Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
MACBETH	Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
	For pilferings and most common trespasses
ROMEO	Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
		      How now, sweet queen!
	Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
	Then, venom, to thy work.
	Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:
	My father as he slept, I had done't.
	I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
	Though I condemn not, yet, under pardon,
	Till famine and the ague eat them up:
	Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
	To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
	My child is yet a stranger in the world;
	It had been so with us, had we been there:
	honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat
	Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove:
	Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
EDGAR	Why I do trifle thus with his despair
	That you start at it? I say, I am your mother;
	To be commanded.
	And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
	My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
	[Enter PETER]
	Is 't not the king?
	Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
	Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
	Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram,
	by a gentleman his companion.
	Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue,
	There's scarce a bush.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
KENT	Made she no verbal question?
	[Kneeling]
	[Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN]
	given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
HORATIO	[Reads]  'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
	That minces virtue, and does shake the head
	There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled
	To avert your liking a more worthier way
	'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
	Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
	When he himself might his quietus make
	Who is too good to pity thee.
LORD POLONIUS	I have, my lord.
KENT	I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered
	Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
	Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
	And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
	Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
	Knock,
Clown	Faith, sir, a' has an English name; but his fisnomy
	Thou know'st already.
	Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
HELENA	No, my good lord;
HAMLET	It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
	[Sings]
Fool	Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all shamed.
	My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
	Go, go, provide.
	salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
	To rid her from this second marriage,
	Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
		     By my old beard,
	Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;
	I have a voice and precedent of peace,
	So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
	I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
First Clown	Mine, sir.
KENT	He hath no daughters, sir.
	And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
MARIANA	He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
	Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
	The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
COUNTESS	You're welcome, gentlemen.
	for my life.
LAFEU	Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
PAROLLES	Under Mars, I.
	could be set up against mortality.
	And beggar'd yours for ever?
	My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
	That seems to speak things strange.
	Have, as I do remember, done me wrong:
OSWALD	Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
	How you shall bid God 'ild us for your pains,
	With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
	Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
	silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
	should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
	What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
MACBETH	Thou art the best o' the cut-throats: yet he's good
	To speak and purpose not; since what I well intend,
	could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
	More potent than the first.
	Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
	Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
	Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,'
EDGAR	This is above all strangeness.
	Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
GUILDENSTERN	My lord, we were sent for.
First Witch	Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
GLOUCESTER	The duke's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
	[Exit HORATIO]
	And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;
	his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did
	The fundamental reasons of this war,
	As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
PRINCE	Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
First Soldier	Well, that's set down.
	Deal between thee and me! for even now
MARCELLUS	                  Look, with what courteous action
KING	Plutus himself,
	There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
Nurse	I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
	Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
CAPULET	Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
	It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
First Lord	You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
	praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
Second Servant	You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
	[Storm still]
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
REGAN	Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
	Was ever book containing such vile matter
	[Aside]
	[Exeunt]
PAROLLES	By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
	[Exeunt, fighting. Alarums]
BALTHASAR	I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
	[They retire without the door]
	That stretch their duties nicely.
	As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
	Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
	Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
	hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
	Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!
	god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
LADY MACBETH	Woe, alas!
	As we shall find their merits and our safety
	there. Be the players ready?
Second Soldier	                  So I will, sir.
	To cry 'Hold, hold!'
	Good night, mother.
	I do beseech thee--
	If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
	And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
	By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
	Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
	It is concluded. Banquo, thy soul's flight,
	Speak to her, Hamlet.
	Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
	And by the happy hollow of a tree
	Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
	And soundly too: your houses!
	End ere I do begin.
	clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we
	Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
GONERIL	The best and soundest of his time hath been but
	Was both herself and love: O, then, give pity
	That downward hath succeeded in his house
	crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's
LAFEU	Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
GREGORY	That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
LORD POLONIUS	I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
	And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
	Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
	For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Old Man	God's benison go with you; and with those
MERCUTIO	kinsman to the prince, and friend to Romeo.
	Young men will do't, if they come to't;
KING CLAUDIUS	What do you call the play?
	Thus do go about, about:
	Who comes here?
	[Exeunt COUNTESS and Gentlemen]
	Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
	The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
	Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
	That one short minute gives me in her sight:
EDGAR	Pillicock sat on Pillicock-hill:
	To wage against the enmity o' the air;
	With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
REGAN	I dare avouch it, sir: what, fifty followers?
	Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
	'Too young' and 'the next year' and ''tis too early.'
	That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
	From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
Doctor:
PAROLLES	O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
	Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
Nurse	[Within]  Madam!
Second Witch	Paddock calls.
	To hear of pleasure's name;
	Into the staggers and the careless lapse
	Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
	Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
KING LEAR	O, reason not the need: our basest beggars
	Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
	That's a shealed peascod.
	facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
	ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
CORDELIA	Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
	That this great king may kindly say,
	When presently through all thy veins shall run
KING	Good fortune and the favour of the king
	And all to all.
	Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
ROSENCRANTZ	Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
	Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
HELENA	Your pardon, noble mistress!
FRIAR JOHN	|
	I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
	Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
	Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
	[Exit LADY MACDUFF, crying 'Murder!' Exeunt
LADY MACDUFF	Every one.
	Her brother is in secret come from France;
	MACBETH
	All in the morning betime,
	Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
	[Exit]
Clown	And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
OSRIC	|
	How long is't now since last yourself and I
MACBETH	I'll bring you to him.
PARIS	This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
	The Lord's anointed temple, and stole thence
	[Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS]
	That this our court, infected with their manners,
	Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
PAROLLES	O, let me live!
	Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
	Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
HAMLET	No; you'll reveal it.
SCENE V	Gloucester's castle.
	Lies my consent and fair according voice.
	This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
	his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
	And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
PAROLLES	Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard:
JULIET	And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
	And hears it roar beneath.
FRANCISCO	Not a mouse stirring.
	night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
First Soldier	Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
MERCUTIO	Come, sir, your passado.
	[Enter MACBETH]
	his displeasure; which at this instant so rageth
	Will you go see her?
	Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
	Soldiers, &c]
MACBETH	Had I but died an hour before this chance,
	Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
QUEEN GERTRUDE	How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
	Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
	Two Clowns, grave-diggers.
	yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
	Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!
GLOUCESTER	Canst thou blame him?
	cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
	Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:
	Gives way to in repose!
	I have seen better faces in my time
HAMLET	Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
	and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
	would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
	Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
	[Exit Page]
	Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
Nurse	Out upon you! what a man are you!
MACBETH	I did so, and went further, which is now
	This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
	Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of
	Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
	For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
	About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
KING LEAR	Come, good Athenian.
HAMLET	Methinks it is like a weasel.
	endeavours; for then we wound our modesty and make
	Where yet she never was.
	To the great sender turns a sour offence,
	Did hate thee or thy father!
LENNOX	                  Good night; and better health
	Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
MONTAGUE	                  But I can give thee more:
	You justicers, that these our nether crimes
JULIET	Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
	Which often leaves the history unspoke
	[Exit]
	Which warp'd the line of every other favour;
	See you now;
	On thine allegiance, hear me!
	Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound
	will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great
	The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
	We will perform in measure, time and place:
	What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
BOTH	                  We'll take your offer kindly.
LORD POLONIUS	Farewell!
	Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents
	For in the fatness of these pursy times
	Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
ROMEO	It is my soul that calls upon my name:
	Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
	Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
Messenger	Come with my lady hither.
	This shall not be revoked.
	[Enter BERTRAM]
	A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
	end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
	Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
	And now you should be as your mother was
	To follow in a house where twice so many
	[They fight]
	The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
KING CLAUDIUS	Conceit upon her father.
	Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
	For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
	so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
	That the great figure of a council frames
	Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
CAPULET	O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
	And your large speeches may your deeds approve,
LENNOX	|
REGAN	[To EDMUND]  Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
PAROLLES	Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
	[Thunder. Enter the three Witches]
	Of this remove.
Gentleman	Why, good sir?
	'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
	a sorrow than have it.
	This realm dismantled was
Messenger	No, my good lord; I met him back again.
	That by thy comfortable beams I may
	O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
	Who is already sick and pale with grief,
	Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
	Being the very fellow that of late
	[Grappling with him]
	As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
	Our tears are not yet brew'd.
LADY CAPULET	                  Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
	By our remembrances of days foregone,
	Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?
	That plats the manes of horses in the night,
SCENE V	Juliet's chamber.
	That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
	Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!
	But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
	But love thee better than thou canst devise,
	[Re-enter TYBALT]
	Have follow'd your sad steps.
	Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
EDMUND	My services to your lordship.
	with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well
	Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
	Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
	And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
Nurse	Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
	Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
	Thy knotted and combined locks to part
	As clears her from all blame.
	It should not stand in thy posterity,
KING CLAUDIUS	O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
	How stands your disposition to be married?
	And you all know, security
	Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
	Death lies on her like an untimely frost
	Who should against his murderer shut the door,
	Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,--
	It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
	Let 's away;
LORD POLONIUS	                  That hath made him mad.
HELENA	Is it yourself?
	And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
	Take these again; for to the noble mind
	The horrible conceit of death and night,
HAMLET	As woman's love.
	Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
	I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.
	Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
	noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the
ROSS	God save the king!
ROMEO	Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
	might have a good woman born but one every blazing
	Which in his death were perfect.
ROMEO	It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
CAPULET	How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
	Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
LAERTES	I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
	Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
DUNCAN	Welcome hither:
	Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
	To keep it from divulging, let it feed
	Stretch him out longer.
HAMLET	Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
	In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
	Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
	[Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet,
	Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
	players--as it is most like, if their means are no
	With the ancient of war on our proceedings.
GONERIL	Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
KING CLAUDIUS	                  Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
DIANA	'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
	And, as I think, they have already order
	When living light should kiss it?
	Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
SCENE III	The same.
	[Reads]
	To make die with a restorative.
	Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
	What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
	Which shows me many more; and some I see
	Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
Widow	Gentle madam,
	Clamour'd the livelong night: some say, the earth
	in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
	these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
	When they did say 'God bless us!'
	Commend me to my kinsmen and my son:
Nurse	O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
	Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
	simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
GLOUCESTER	What mean your graces? Good my friends, consider
MALCOLM	Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
REGAN	This house is little: the old man and his people
	most required and necessary.
ESCALUS	prince of Verona. (PRINCE:)
	with divers young Lords taking leave for the
	[Exeunt KING LEAR, KENT, and Attendants]
	That you are so.
	How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
	Prejudicates the business and would seem
	ne'er got 'em.
	Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
First Lord	Excellently.
BERTRAM	It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
	where our fate,
	How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
	Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
REGAN	Such unconstant starts are we like to have from
	Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
	For husband shalt thou--
	Why, then she lives.
	I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
	That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
	Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
	displeasure.
	By laboursome petition, and at last
	What we have two nights seen.
	Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
	The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
	fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
	time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
KING LEAR	O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
REGAN	                  That's as we list to grace him.
	I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
HAMLET	Thou pray'st not well.
	That seeks not to find that her search implies,
KING LEAR	Now, by Apollo,--
	To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
	Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
	For Hecuba!
	To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
	Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
	Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
	The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
	As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
	Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
	With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
	Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
JULIET	Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
HELENA	Sir, I can nothing say,
	Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
	What curious eye doth quote deformities?
	But this eternal blazon must not be
	My head should be struck off.
	But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
	That I have longed long to re-deliver;
HAMLET	Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
	Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
BENVOLIO	Am I like such a fellow?
	Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
	Cut short all intermission; front to front
	Swear by my sword.
	how say you?
REGAN	Why is this reason'd?
	And thou must make a dullard of the world,
	I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
	The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
	And these, who often drown'd could never die,
	Nay, come, let's go together.
	The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
	And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
CORNWALL	True or false, it hath made thee earl of
	Which shall to all our nights and days to come
	Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
EDMUND	That thought abuses you.
	An I might live to see thee married once,
	[Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX]
	Bench by his side:
	We sucking on her natural bosom find,
	To give thee from our royal master thanks;
	him, nor any way sustain him.
Son	Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
OPHELIA	My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
MACBETH	Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
	Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
	of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
	Go on; I'll follow thee.
KING LEAR	No seconds? all myself?
	[Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France,
HELENA	I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own
	Without our grace, our love, our benison.
	My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love:
	[Exeunt]
Second Witch	By the pricking of my thumbs,
	By some discretion, that discerns your state
First Murderer	Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
First Lord	Holy seems the quarrel
	poor gallant knave.
EDGAR	But, by your favour,
	Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
	Commencing in a truth? I am thane of Cawdor:
	That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
	[Enter HORATIO and a Servant]
HELENA	Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
	Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
	As one that had been studied in his death
	I say, a moving grove.
SCENE IV	Florence. The Widow's house.
	[Enter BANQUO]
	GONERIL, REGAN, CORDELIA, and Attendants]
	nearest; buried a wife, mourned for her; writ to my
	bawd, in way of good service, and art nothing but
	This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
	grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
	No, I'll not weep:
	brutish villain! worse than brutish! Go, sirrah,
	My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
ANGUS	                  Who was the thane lives yet;
	Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
ROMEO	Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
TYBALT	Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
	As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,
	Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
	Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
	To half a soul and to a notion crazed
	Above the rest, be gone.
	Finding it so inclined.
KING LEAR	No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even
	That happiness and prime can happy call:
BENVOLIO	Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
MALCOLM	But Macbeth is.
HORATIO	E'en so.
	[Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse]
	In such an honour named. What's more to do,
	And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
LORD POLONIUS	And the queen too, and that presently.
	Thou diest within this hour.
	O'erbears it and burns on.
	The healing benediction. With this strange virtue,
	In borrow'd robes?
ROMEO	Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
	Those he commands move only in command,
	One that you love.
	|  his sons.
	In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
	Is too much for a score,
	And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
	Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
	Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
BURGUNDY	Royal Lear,
	For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
	[Storm still]
	That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
	That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
	the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
GONERIL	We must do something, and i' the heat.
EDMUND	                  A herald, ho, a herald!
	We should profane the service of the dead
	That strike beside us.
	They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
Nurse	O lamentable day!
	progress through the guts of a beggar.
	And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
	And never from this palace of dim night
	Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
LAFEU	A good traveller is something at the latter end of a
Fool	This is a brave night to cool a courtezan.
	Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
	That treason can but peep to what it would,
HAMLET	Madam, how like you this play?
MARCELLUS	Nor I, my lord.
	Which she hath praised him with above compare
	Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
	|  generals of the king's army.
	A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
	He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't;
	Not one word more of the consumed time.
	was guilty of.
HAMLET	Nor the soles of her shoe?
	commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
REGAN	I know't, my sister's: this approves her letter,
	To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
	And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
	Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
	Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
	thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
	[Exeunt]
	loves him. Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him
LORD POLONIUS	Give o'er the play.
	Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
LORD POLONIUS	Do you know me, my lord?
HAMLET	Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
	Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
PAROLLES	I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
	[Exit BALTHASAR]
	I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
	Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark,
	Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
	If it be not, forswear't: howe'er, I charge thee,
	Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
	But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
	All given to mine ear.
ACT III
	Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
HELENA	I humbly thank you:
	When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
	For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
	All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
	If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
HAMLET	Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
	[Exit Servant]
First Witch	Round about the cauldron go;
	[Exeunt]
	Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
	Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
	Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
	The ratifiers and props of every word,
ROMEO	Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
ROMEO	More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
COUNTESS	This young gentlewoman had a father,--O, that
	scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
	Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
LAERTES	To cut his throat i' the church.
	love thee.
EDMUND	It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is
	You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
	Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
SCENE VII	Gloucester's castle.
Third Witch	Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
	If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
MALCOLM	Dispute it like a man.
SCENE	Rousillon; Paris; Florence; Marseilles.
	Of dear import, and the neglecting it
	But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
	And we beseech you, bend you to remain
	It is a peerless kinsman.
	Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
	may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it is
Lords	                  Our duties, and the pledge.
	(First Player:)
	Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
	That I essentially am not in madness,
ROMEO	O, teach me how I should forget to think.
	Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
	But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
	That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
	I smell the blood of a British man.
SCENE V	A Heath.
HORATIO	His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
	Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
JULIET	Good even to my ghostly confessor.
First Lord	That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see
	The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
	To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
	in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film
	For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
	Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
BANQUO	Very gladly.
	So early walking did I see your son:
	In nature is a tyranny; it hath been
	Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
	Upon your grace's part; black and fearful
	Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd,
	Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
	Mastiff, grey-hound, mongrel grim,
	O, a pit of clay for to be made
Gentleman	As I learn'd,
LADY MACBETH	Say to the king, I would attend his leisure
	Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
LAFEU	I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor
	Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Old Man	'Tis poor mad Tom.
	My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
	And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
GLOUCESTER	Come, come, away.
PAROLLES	Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel.
Widow	The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
KING	Farewell. Come hither to me.
	hear my lord speak: pray ye, go; there's my key:
	From Goneril his mistress salutations;
	That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
	Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
LADY CAPULET	                  O woful time!
	He that helps him take all my outward worth.
KENT	None of these rogues and cowards
ROMEO	Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
	Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
MACBETH	Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear,
	So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul!
KING LEAR	Hear me, recreant!
	So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
	trust my judgment in any thing.
	And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
	I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
OSRIC	Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
	That nature, which contemns its origin,
KING LEAR	Nothing!
KING LEAR	Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
	And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
LORD POLONIUS	Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
	Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
	That dare leave two together; fare you well.
	thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine
	As to peace-parted souls.
	Be bold you do so grow in my requital
	But mere implorators of unholy suits,
	therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
	of his council.
	Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
	Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Second Lord	What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel
	if we were villains by necessity; fools by
	And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
	gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
	And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
	have answered to his reputation with the duke and to
MACBETH	Then live, Macduff: what need I fear of thee?
	makes these hard hearts?
	And young affection gapes to be his heir;
	A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.
	As in your royal speech.
MACBETH	Here's our chief guest.
	So levied as before, against the Polack:
JULIET	Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
	mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
	porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
	My life were better ended by their hate,
	And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
ROSENCRANTZ	Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
CORDELIA	Peace be with Burgundy!
HAMLET	In happy time.
	I love your son.
HAMLET	[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
	Should loosen him and me.
	perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
	Due to some single breast?
ACT II
HELENA	If I break time, or flinch in property
	example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
	[Trumpet answers within]
	The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
SCENE II	Paris. The KING's palace.
SCENE IV	The same. A tent.
	whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
	Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, I have news to tell you.
	Almost too small for sight: the murmuring surge,
	The fellow has a deal of that too much,
LAERTES	Drown'd! O, where?
	My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
OPHELIA	You are merry, my lord.
	That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
	I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him:
	[Exit Romeo]
	[Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters]
	That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
	For the demand of our neglected tribute
	Of the great count himself, she is too mean
	my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
HAMLET	Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
Third Murderer	There's but one down; the son is fled.
	It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
CORNWALL	No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.
	My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
	Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
	When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
	the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
	Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
	Let's take the instant by the forward top;
MACBETH	                  I am settled, and bend up
LADY MACDUFF	Whither should I fly?
FORTINBRAS	prince of Norway. (PRINCE FORTINBRAS:)
MALCOLM	Macduff, this noble passion,
	you something to know it.
	Are register'd where every day I turn
	As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
	That ebb and flow by the moon.
	A sable silver'd.
	My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
	And drive his purpose on to these delights.
	Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
	you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
	Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
	Thou art the nonpareil.
	And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
	[Retiring]
KING LEAR	My curses on her!
	To give these mourning duties to your father:
Second Lord	Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
CORNWALL	Shut up your doors, my lord; 'tis a wild night:
	A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
	Their going hence, even as their coming hither;
	I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
	As all impediments in fancy's course
	O worthiest cousin!
	To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform
HAMLET	Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
	To meet her new-beloved any where:
	[Exit EDGAR]
	To have her gentleman abused, assaulted,
ACT I
	England! Farewell, dear mother.
	Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross
	By his own interdiction stands accursed,
	Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
	Macbeth doth come.
REYNALDO	At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
MERCUTIO	God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
MACBETH	If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
	Soldiers in ambush]
	That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
	I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
	To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
	Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
	pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
Captain	God be wi' you, sir.
	sequent to your whipping: you would answer very well
	They presently amend.
	And bring some covering for this naked soul,
	To your professed bosoms I commit him
	In our heart's table; heart too capable
REGAN	Was he not companion with the riotous knights
EDMUND	How comes that?
	And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
EDGAR	Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. Poor
SCENE II	A hall in the castle.
HAMLET	It waves me still.
	[Knocking within]
	Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
	stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of
	ROMEO AND JULIET
ALBANY	But who was this?
	[Exit EDMUND]
	that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
	But yet 'tis one.
	half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
	Or show the glory of our art?
	Too great oppression for a tender thing.
	I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
	Which on more view, of many mine being one
	That they have done't?
HELENA	Take this purse of gold,
	Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane,
ROSENCRANTZ	My lord, you once did love me.
EDMUND	I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
	With all my love I do commend me to you:
	Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
	Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
	[Exit]
	Which I presume shall render you no blame
	comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
ALBANY	Thou art arm'd, Gloucester: let the trumpet sound:
	Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
	For, with throwing thus my head,
	To what I shall unfold.
	it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
	When sorrows come, they come not single spies
	And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
	A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
	As happy prologues to the swelling act
	And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
	My stern effects: then what I have to do
KING CLAUDIUS	And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
LAERTES	What out of this, my lord?
KING LEAR	Good morrow to you both.
	From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
	creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
	An old man, cousin to Capulet. (Second Capulet:)
	do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
	God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
	As oft as any passion under heaven
	Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
	Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
FRIAR JOHN	I could not send it,--here it is again,--
	Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
ACT IV
	custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
HAMLET	O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
	| [Within]  My lord, my lord,--
	Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
MERCUTIO	Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
	Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
	Forced to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
HAMLET	Nor did you nothing hear?
KING LEAR	So young, and so untender?
	To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
EDGAR	[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
	blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
	keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with
OPHELIA	Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
ROSENCRANTZ	None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
HAMLET	Whose was it?
KING	Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say
KING CLAUDIUS	How do you, pretty lady?
	A modern ecstasy; the dead man's knell
	ROMEO AND JULIET
PARIS	Monday, my lord,
BANQUO	At your kind'st leisure.
	From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
LAERTES	Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
	Why she dares not come over to thee.
	Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
	Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
	May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
	What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
	If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
	[Enter Ghost]
	For if the king like not the comedy,
	If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
KING	My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
OSWALD	So please you,--
	Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
	Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
HELENA	O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
	Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
	O, in this love, you love your child so ill,
JULIET	Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
	Look what I have.
KING	What ring was yours, I pray you?
First Clown	I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
	They hail'd him father to a line of kings:
	Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
	My wife kill'd too?
	to entreat me to 't.
	Knock,
	Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
	A modest one, to bear me back a again.
Gentleman	A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
	With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
HAMLET	What ho! Horatio!
LADY MACBETH	That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
	Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
	No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
	Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
	A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
	On mine own sword? whiles I see lives, the gashes
	For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
	That I have worn a visor and could tell
GLOUCESTER	He did bewray his practise; and received
	But a hare that is hoar
	Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
	I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
GONERIL	An interlude!
	Given order for our horses; and to-night,
	Shall e'er have power upon thee.' Then fly,
	Three Musicians.
	[Re-enter Nurse]
	I am almost mad myself: I had a son,
PAROLLES	Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake
	I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
	The air of paradise did fan the house
KENT	By Juno, I swear, ay.
	Or whether since he is advised by aught
MERCUTIO	That dreamers often lie.
	Who should express her goodliest. You have seen
	The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
HAMLET	So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
	But, soft! what day is this?
	But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
	Whose violent property fordoes itself
EDGAR	Bear free and patient thoughts. But who comes here?
	Under a hand accursed!
	KING LEAR
	Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others]
EDGAR	                  Let's exchange charity.
KING LEAR	I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
	(First Witch:)
	Is it the king?
	And this shall free thee from this present shame;
HAMLET	It will be short: the interim is mine;
KING	Is there no exorcist
FRIAR LAURENCE	I am the greatest, able to do least,
	pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can
First Murderer	'Tis Banquo's then.
	In going back to school in Wittenberg,
	Child of integrity, hath from my soul
Doctor	He's scarce awake: let him alone awhile.
ROSENCRANTZ	Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
	Makes us hear something.
	There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
ABRAHAM	servant to Montague.
	With speedy help doth lend redress.'
	And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
	[Enter a Messenger]
	Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
	And falls on the other.
MACBETH	They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
HAMLET	I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
	And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
	| We'll wait upon you.
	O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
	The duke will lay upon him all the honour
	God bless you, sir!
	calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
MACBETH	Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
	Leave all the rest to me.
HAMLET	That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
	My lady is bespoke.
	[Drawing]
	Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it:
	Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
GLOUCESTER	O, let me kiss that hand!
FRIAR LAURENCE	There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
KING LEAR	You do me wrong to take me out o' the grave:
	All is but toys: renown and grace is dead;
	My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
	To our own lips. He's here in double trust;
	Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
	PROLOGUE
MARCELLUS	|
	Now spurs the lated traveller apace
	This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
	daring the reports of my tongue.
	Either withdraw unto some private place,
	Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name
	Against the old kind king; or something deeper,
	We'll ne'er come there again.'
JULIET	Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
	Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
	Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
	Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
	The air is delicate.
	The sin of my ingratitude even now
LENNOX	And that well might
	Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France;
	Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
HAMLET	O God!
	Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
JULIET	O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
	Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
	To his dog-hearted daughters, these things sting
	Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
	Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
MACDUFF	I know this is a joyful trouble to you;
PAROLLES	What, what, sweet-heart?
	Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
	But what we do determine oft we break.
FRIAR JOHN	Going to find a bare-foot brother out
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	And at our more consider'd time well read,
	rule of nature. To speak on the part of virginity,
	of.
	And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
	Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
	I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
HORATIO	I warrant it will.
LAFEU	I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
	If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
	But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
	KING LEAR
ACT I
	Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
	Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
	That were the opposites of this day's strife:
	We rest your hermits.
PARIS	Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
	That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
	It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
	phrase,--that had the whole theoric of war in the
	As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;
ALBANY	Our very loving sister, well be-met.
	So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
	butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
	The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
HELENA	I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
	[To ROSS and ANGUS]
	Did not attend him as we rode? I think
OSRIC	Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
GLOUCESTER	It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
	Is she not down so late, or up so early?
	Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms,
	And an old hare hoar,
	This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
	where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
ACT III
	hours at the trade.
LAFEU	Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
	[Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS]
KENT	Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
KING LEAR	A king, a king!
	Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
	He is attended with a desperate train;
	The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
	She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
	|  officers.
Player King	   Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
	The inward service of the mind and soul
	The congregated college have concluded
	in's forehead.
	Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him,
	Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
	Which now goes too free-footed.
	Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
	Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
HELENA	To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
CORNWALL	Fie, sir, fie!
DIANA	Ay, my lord.
	of his own judgments, wherein so curiously he had
BERTRAM	How have I sworn!
	in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
	Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
	I am not I, if there be such an I;
	The time and my intents are savage-wild,
	A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
	See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
	As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
	Lost he his other eye?
	[Exeunt]
PARIS	Younger than she are happy mothers made.
	That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
PARIS	My father Capulet will have it so;
	Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
REYNALDO	My lord, that would dishonour him.
	The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
KENT	Authority.
	[Exit]
	He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
	there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him
ROMEO	Let me stand here till thou remember it.
	Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
Steward	|
	For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
	You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
ROMEO	Nurse!
	The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
	And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
REGAN	We shall further think on't.
KING CLAUDIUS	Ay, Hamlet.
	Took their discharge.
KENT	Ay.
	would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
	Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,
BERTRAM	Titled goddess;
HAMLET	I am tame, sir: pronounce.
	On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
OSRIC	Nothing, neither way.
	To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
	I must not look to have; but, in their stead,
HORATIO	It must be shortly known to him from England
LADY MACBETH	'They met me in the day of success: and I have
	'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
	The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
	Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
	nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
MACBETH	Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
	Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
	lecherous. Tut, I should have been that I am,
	Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.
	Makes thee the happier: heavens, deal so still!
ROSS	They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
	That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
GLOUCESTER	O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
	And play the humble host.
	Stand in assured loss: take up, take up;
Nurse	Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
Second Witch	Hail!
KING LEAR	No.
	If trembling I inhabit then, protest me
	With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
	[First Murderer appears at the door]
KING CLAUDIUS	O, he is mad, Laertes.
	or it is upon a file with the duke's other letters
	But never doubt I love.
MACBETH	[Aside]	Two truths are told,
	Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
	And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
	Receive the ring again.
	Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
	Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
EDMUND	No, by mine honour, madam.
CORNWALL	Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
	Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
	Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
	This mad young man: but so much was our love,
	My soul is full of discord and dismay.
	[Enter LADY MACBETH]
	Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
	Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
LADY MACDUFF	He had none:
	When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom;
	If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
	And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
	That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	You're great in fortune.
MACDUFF	My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
	the rector of the place.
MACDUFF	That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
	How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
	could see the puppets dallying.
	'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
	Which craves as desperate an execution.
BANQUO	What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
	Before you serve.
	And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
	[Exit Steward]
	And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
MONTAGUE	|
JULIET	What villain madam?
SCENE III	The Florentine camp.
	The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
LAFEU	You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs
	Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
KING CLAUDIUS	Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
LAFEU	I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
	Makes wing to the rooky wood:
SAMPSON	'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
	Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin:
	Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
	too little for pomp to enter: some that humble
KENT	Fellow, I know thee.
	Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
	that had received so much shame, you might begin an
	against six French swords, their assigns, and three
	died: they say he made a good end,--
	not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
EDGAR	Some villain hath done me wrong.
HAMLET	On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
HAMLET	Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
OSWALD	I know not, lady.
	Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
	the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
	The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
	[Throws them down]
EDMUND	                  Yet Edmund was beloved:
	Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
EDGAR	Let us deal justly.
	Or cease your quest of love?
	With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
	[POLONIUS hides behind the arras]
	Give me my armour.
	Let her who would be rid of him devise
	All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
	Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more.'
KING LEAR	First let me talk with this philosopher.
	When yond same star that's westward from the pole
ROMEO	By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
	sulphurous pit,
	At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
	He but usurp'd his life.
	How shall that faith return again to earth,
EDMUND	Sir, I thought it fit
	[Flourish of trumpets within]
	That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
	When the battle's lost and won.
	Dispatch the most convenient messenger:
	And many unrough youths that even now
	And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
	ay?
	Not to be over-ruled. Idle old man,
	Whose execution takes your enemy off,
	And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
MACBETH	If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
COUNTESS	[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
	There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
LORD POLONIUS	My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
	Can woman me unto't: where is my son, I pray you?
ACT V
	For exile hath more terror in his look,
BERTRAM	Nothing of me, has a'?
HAMLET	I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
	as if you would drive me into a toil?
GONERIL	Pluck out his eyes.
	[GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes]
Doctor	What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
BERNARDO	|
	It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
	Here in this city visiting the sick,
	Who I myself struck down; and thence it is,
	The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
	Than to entreaty.
DIANA	It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
KING LEAR	Prithee, away.
	files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of
	Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
	I would adventure for such merchandise.
KING LEAR	Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight?
	beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
	That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
	Nay, come not near th' old man; keep out, che vor
	Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
KING LEAR	To have a thousand with red burning spits
	Fiery? what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
Gentleman	Contending with the fretful element:
OPHELIA	Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
HAMLET	That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
HAMLET	                  Why, what should be the fear?
	The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
SCENE I	A room in POLONIUS' house.
KING CLAUDIUS	Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
HAMLET	What hour now?
	[Enter POLONIUS]
Captain	Truly to speak, and with no addition,
EDGAR	Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
	As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
LAFEU	You have it from his own deliverance.
GUILDENSTERN	|
	A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
	Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
OSRIC	How is't, Laertes?
	KING LEAR
	Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
	Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
	Hath been but for a wayward son,
	But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
	And call itself your brother.
	offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites,
	I have in quick determination
	Are in the poorest thing superfluous:
	at suit of his gray beard,--
OPHELIA	I shall obey, my lord.
	the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
	That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
	Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth;
	The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind
	Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
ACT III
HELENA	My lord your son made me to think of this;
	And every measure fail me.
	in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
	away,' &c]
	Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
	Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
	And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
	All my smooth body.
	[LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they
MARCELLUS	Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
	Because it is an enemy to thee;
	Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
	Were very pregnant and potential spurs
	To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
	sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
	[Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and Doctor]
MERCUTIO	O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
	And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
	answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
LAFEU	Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
KING	If it were yours by none of all these ways,
	heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
	To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
	Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
	[Enter ROMEO]
	Go speedily and bring again the count.
	He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
	For art and exercise in your defence
LADY MACBETH	Only look up clear;
GREGORY	The heads of the maids?
	that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
	You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
	and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch: one whom I
OPHELIA	He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
	interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
		 Now, where's your master'?
	your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
	My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
	Shall more attend upon the coming space,
	So, oft it chances in particular men,
	And thy commandment all alone shall live
PAROLLES	There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
	And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
	Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
	And presently took post to tell it you:
	Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
CORNWALL	What mean'st by this?
	me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
	Either his notion weakens, his discernings
HAMLET	I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
PARIS	Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Son	And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
	Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
	Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
KING	Are thou so confident? within what space
	at this line: let me see, let me see--
SCENE III	A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
	That it was he in the times past which held you
	Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
ROMEO	Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
	Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
	Rather than so, come fate into the list.
	Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son;
	But tell me then, 'tis so; for, look thy cheeks
	[Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND]
	All this I know; and to the marriage
	mattock, &c]
	Are stol'n away and fled; which puts upon them
	The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
	Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
	[Retires]
	O, step between her and her fighting soul:
Nurse	O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
	of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
	One of them we behold.
	When down her weedy trophies and herself
	But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
LENNOX	No, my lord.
	Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
	And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
	MACBETH
Servant	God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
	And in the taste confounds the appetite:
	as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for
	As he is very potent with such spirits,
	And I a maid at your window,
	[Re-enter Ghost]
	Thy sheep be in the corn;
	Deadly divorce step between me and you!
	both the office of God and the devil? One brings
	Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
	[Exit]
LADY MACBETH	My worthy lord,
	Each drop of us.
	And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
	Things have been strangely borne. The
MERCUTIO	Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
	service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
	Horns whelk'd and waved like the enridged sea:
ACT II
	Though palaces and pyramids do slope
	ROMEO AND JULIET
HAMLET	Why,
	Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
	when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
PAROLLES	Faith, sir, he has led the drum before the English
	With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
	I will be jovial: come, come; I am a king,
	That make ingrateful man!
	Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
	Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
	Which the commission of thy years and art
	With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
	'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
	[Knocking within]
	And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
	To show yourself your father's son in deed
	Of this child-changed father!
ROSS	My dearest coz,
SCENE IV	Forres. The palace.
	Is stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd.
	Without a sudden calm, will overset
	Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;
	cannot choose; and to eat no fish.
JULIET	By and by, I come:--
HAMLET	No, by the rood, not so:
	Knock,
	How oft when men are at the point of death
COUNTESS	Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
PAROLLES	Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
PAROLLES	It might have been recovered.
	What is the cause of thunder?
	Who have--as who have not, that their great stars
	Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to the encounter,
	Mark, I say, instantly; and carry it so
	That fled the snares of watchful tyranny;
	And I'll request your presence.
	For a charm of powerful trouble,
	to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
	So, prithee, go with me.
	[Exit]
	And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
	Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
	To the succeeding royalty he leaves
	A couch for luxury and damned incest.
	Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
	offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.
	trumpet: he is bold in his defence.'
	Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
	proud of heart, to ride on a bay trotting-horse over
	Your patience so predominant in your nature
HORATIO	A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
	As that is desperate which we would prevent.
	Than twenty silly ducking observants
	And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
MARCELLUS	My good lord--
COUNTESS	What angel shall
GONERIL	'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest,
	And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
KENT	Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
	That under covert and convenient seeming
First Clown	Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
DIANA	No, my good lord, Diana.
	There's nothing here that is too good for him
	are no husband for her.
GUILDENSTERN	What should we say, my lord?
	Answer, and think upon this business.
	Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
KING	Peruse them well:
	Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
	More needs she the divine than the physician.
	soft music playing; Gentleman, and others attending.
	Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
LAFEU	They say miracles are past; and we have our
	And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
EDMUND	Fear me not:
LAERTES	My dread lord,
LORD POLONIUS	What said he?
	imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
	foolish ear.
BERTRAM	And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death
	'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
	world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
	And every one shall share i' the gains;
	[Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX, with ROSS]
	Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
ROSENCRANTZ	Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
	May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
MACBETH	[Aside]  Glamis, and thane of Cawdor!
LAFEU	Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
	Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
	The king is render'd lost.
	Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
ROMEO	Ay me! sad hours seem long.
	To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
GLOUCESTER	No? What needed, then, that terrible dispatch of
	I'll fa you; do you note me?
KING CLAUDIUS	Well, we shall sift him.
	So, farewell to you both.
	And with him pour we in our country's purge
ACT V
	instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
	How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
	You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
	As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
	Yet have I something in me dangerous,
LENNOX	                  Here is a place reserved, sir.
	Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,
	Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
	Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;
	Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
KING LEAR	Did I not, fellow?
	Now his important blood will nought deny
	Till it cry sleep to death.
EDGAR	Tom's a-cold.
LAFEU	To what is count's man: count's master is of
First Watchman	Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
	Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
	enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
ROMEO	Is the day so young?
	To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
	[Flourish. Exeunt]
	That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
	do you no harm to learn.
	Many receipts he gave me: chiefly one.
Second Lord	Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
Steward	Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
	[Exit]
	Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
BANQUO	                  Look, how our partner's rapt.
	If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
	'Sblood, there is something in this more than
	And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
	now. Your date is better in your pie and your
	Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
	God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother
	The fitchew, nor the soiled horse, goes to 't
	Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
	The very soul, and sweet religion makes
	He's loved of the distracted multitude,
	That she, that even but now was your best object,
	They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
	And here from gracious England have I offer
LAERTES	                  Come, my lord.
	To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
OPHELIA	[Sings]
	For my heart speaks they are welcome.
	his duchess will be here with him this night.
CAPULET	Send for the county; go tell him of this:
	nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
HORATIO	Very well, my lord.
	Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
	HAMLET
FRIAR LAURENCE	This same should be the voice of Friar John.
LAFEU	Who's that? a Frenchman?
	Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
	her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
	Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
	I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
	such volubility, that you would think truth were a
COUNTESS	                  Find you that there?
	[Exeunt, with a dead march]
	morning for France. The duke hath offered him
	[Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD, MACDUFF,
	That he is open to incontinency;
	'Murder!'
	question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
	love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
	POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords,
	Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
LORD POLONIUS	And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
ROMEO	O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
	Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell;
	pray, can you read any thing you see?
	Soundly invite him--his two chamberlains
LORD POLONIUS	                  God be wi' you; fare you well.
	Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise;
	[Re-enter Clown]
EDGAR	I thank you, sir.
	I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
	past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
BERNARDO	|
KING CLAUDIUS	I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
	Yet I express to you a mother's care:
	[They fight; TYBALT falls]
	Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
HORATIO	Here, sweet lord, at your service.
	We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
	The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
	This vault a feasting presence full of light.
	I am sure of that: and at her late being here
	This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
	Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
	leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
	[Exit. Alarums]
ROMEO	A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
	Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
	The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
	[Exit]
	What like, offensive.
	How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
DIANA	                  It was not lent me neither.
	Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
	To gain the timely inn; and near approaches
	KING LEAR
	Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
	Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed
	A beggarly account of empty boxes,
KENT	Yes, they have.
	Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
	In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
	I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
	And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
	Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
	to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
	thank my God it holds yet.
	Than a graced palace. The shame itself doth speak
COUNTESS	Now, justice on the doers!
TYBALT	What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
	that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
REGAN	The messengers from our sister and the king.
	As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
	[Exeunt BERTRAM and Lords]
	Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
	To seal the accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes;
	Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
HELENA	Ay, madam, knowingly.
	As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
	Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
EDMUND	This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
	Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
	More than in words?
KING LEAR	Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
	In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
MARCELLUS	|
	We'll be before our welcome.
MARIANA	Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
	He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
LAERTES	What ceremony else?
SCENE I	Mantua. A street.
	worthiness.
	Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
HELENA	What's his will else?
	[Enter MACBETH, SEYTON, and Soldiers, with drum
	O any thing, of nothing first create!
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	You Capulet; shall go along with me:
Nurse	I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
	given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
	lose thee nothing; do it carefully. And the
	They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
HORATIO	O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
	This is the door.
	Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out;
	And pleasure drown the brim.
	And his to me:
	Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
	The very place puts toys of desperation,
	My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
KENT	A man, sir.
	Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
Second Clown	The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
	To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
	It shall as level to your judgment pierce
	Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
LAERTES	For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
	[Exit Gentleman]
	Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
	Dost thou not laugh?
	Is he gone, and hath nothing?
	But, as we often see, against some storm,
	Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
GONERIL	Put on what weary negligence you please,
	And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
	You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.
PAROLLES	When he was predominant.
	I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
	You saw one here in court could witness it.
ROSENCRANTZ	|
KENT	No, do not.
LADY MONTAGUE	O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
	By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
	Most generous and free from all contriving,
	Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
	hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch
	One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
	Couch we awhile, and mark.
	For this time, all the rest depart away:
	The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
	[Exit EDGAR]
	cuffs in the question.
Gentleman	They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
KING CLAUDIUS	She swounds to see them bleed.
CORNELIUS	|
MACDUFF	This avarice
	Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
	Thy safety being the motive.
	The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
	She knew her distance and did angle for me,
	My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
	Your most dear daughter--
HAMLET	[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
	To join like likes and kiss like native things.
	But cozen'd and beguiled.
	We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
	And private in his chamber pens himself,
LADY MACBETH	Give him tending;
	Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
	And, as the world were now but to begin,
KING CLAUDIUS	At supper! where?
	Than would make up his message.
	For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
	But know not how to do it.
	To show his grief: let her be round with him;
CORNWALL	What is your difference? speak.
MERCUTIO	Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
BERTRAM	Yes, my good lord;
	And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
	I, measuring his affections by my own,
	hundred-pound, filthy, worsted-stocking knave; a
	horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
	To take upon you what is yours: you may
	That follow'd me so near,--O, our lives' sweetness!
	Macduff is fled to England.
	would scarcely allay.
KING LEAR	With him;
	As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
	You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
	Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
	If with too credent ear you list his songs,
	wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that, in pure
JULIET	I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;
	You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
	Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
	And lay your hands again upon my sword:
KENT	Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
	The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
	And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
	Is thine and my poor country's to command:
First Lord	Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of
	that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
	[To POLONIUS]
Nurse	O God's lady dear!
	friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
	Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
	I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
BENVOLIO	Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
	maids, and cut off their heads.
	good discretion.
		go follow them to prison:
	I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
Fool	Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
All	Gentlemen,--
	I am not an impostor that proclaim
HELENA	Which is he?
SCENE VII	Macbeth's castle.
	To offer it the show of violence;
JULIET	Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
	[Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and
	of the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
	I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
	A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
	man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
REGAN	Wherefore to Dover, sir?
	Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
	Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
	Your eldest daughters have fordone them selves,
	In the unshrinking station where he fought,
	Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
	And break your own neck down.
VOLTIMAND	Most fair return of greetings and desires.
	Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed,
	Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
	And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
OPHELIA	My lord?
Lord	The queen desires you to use some gentle
LUCIANUS	   Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
All	Treason! treason!
	And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
LAFEU	Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
	So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
	they list.
First Musician	What will you give us?
	[Exit]
	And yet, to my teeth be it spoken, I have but four--
	He used as creatures of another place
	Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
	How it did grieve Macbeth! did he not straight
	Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
	And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
	variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
	feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body
	From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
	not men o' their words: they told me I was every
ACT V
	Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
	How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
	sharp sauce.
	Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
LAFEU	I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
LADY CAPULET	He is a kinsman to the Montague;
	To Edmund earl of Gloucester; seek him out
KING	Well excused:
	How have you known the miseries of your father?
	And every hair that's on't, Helen, that's dead,
	And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
Ghost	I am thy father's spirit,
First Watchman	[Within]  Lead, boy: which way?
	Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
	Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
	[Exit]
	But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
	All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
ROMEO	By a name
	linguist and the armipotent soldier.
Gentleman	No, since.
	world; but yet she is not well.
	Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
	To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
	Accounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,
	maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
	If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
	[To CORDELIA]
	shines; I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
	That most may claim this argument for ours?
ROMEO	Well, what was yours?
	you to suspend your indignation against my
	Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
	If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
	brother till you can derive from him better
	But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
	you could go backward.
	At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
Gentlewoman	Neither to you nor any one; having no witness to
COUNTESS	Nay, a mother:
	ancient amities; divisions in state, menaces and
LADY CAPULET	Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
	The life of Tybalt.
HAMLET	Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
	is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
MACDUFF	I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
	For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
	Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
	not there for the goose.
	But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard
	And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
First Soldier	If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
	Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
	Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
	As level as the cannon to his blank,
	The great assay of art; but at his touch--
ACT II
	That swift as quicksilver it courses through
	Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
	To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
	Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
KING LEAR	Because they are not eight?
	yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
	As one incapable of her own distress,
	Blessing upon you!
	Your vessels and your spells provide,
	The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
	division of the kingdom, it appears not which of
	The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
KENT	To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
	And bade them speak to him: then prophet-like
	He was much famed.
PAROLLES	Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
	From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
PAROLLES	He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
	Some other time for that. Beloved Regan,
EDGAR	Why, the night gone by.
	Unto a dismal and a fatal end:
	That show of such an exercise may colour
	And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
	Which holds him much to have.
	[Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS,
EDGAR	   Look, where he stands and glares!
	But most it is presumption in us when
	She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
HELENA	What more commands he?
	For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
	Will you require in present dower with her,
	That I may speak: I'll write straight to my sister,
	Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
	Contagious blastments are most imminent.
	He wears his honour in a box unseen,
	Do we but find the tyrant's power to-night,
DIANA	Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
	to have had so much blood in him.
BENVOLIO	Part, fools!
	But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
	Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
BENVOLIO	The what?
	We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
ACT II
KING CLAUDIUS	[Aside]  It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
	Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
	Cannot once start me.
	Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
	Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
COUNTESS	Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me; and
	Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
	No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
	Which I must act: briefness and fortune, work!
Second Lord	It well may serve
	Have overthrown him.
	love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
	Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
BENVOLIO	Have you importuned him by any means?
	Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
HAMLET	Sir, I cannot.
	And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
BALTHASAR	Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
First Witch	Thou'rt kind.
	But I will delve one yard below their mines,
	Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
PAROLLES	It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you
KING LEAR	O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your
	The triumph of his pledge.
	[Enter BENVOLIO]
LAFEU	There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
LADY MACDUFF	Every one that does so is a traitor, and must be hanged.
PAROLLES	My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
BENVOLIO	For what, I pray thee?
	Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
	Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
	your lordship.
	Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
	To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
	well: thy casement I need not open, for I look
LADY CAPULET	This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
	shot out in our latter times.
HAMLET	In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
	[Exeunt all but MACBETH, and an attendant]
	Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
	[Exeunt Players]
	Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
	If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
	I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
	Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
	Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
MERCUTIO	Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
	During the life of this old majesty,
	out: wind me into him, I pray you: frame the
	Please it your majesty, I have done already:
	In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
	The fit is momentary; upon a thought
	But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
	I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
LORD POLONIUS	Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
Third Servant	If she live long,
	To add the death of you.
	sister company: the revenges we are bound to take
	First tried our soldiership! He did look far
	New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
	Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
HELENA	And ever shall
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
HAMLET	'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
JULIET	If I do so, it will be of more price,
	Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
	[Takes the skull]
	That shall attend his love.
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
KING	He hath arm'd our answer,
	My son's no dearer.
MERCUTIO	I am hurt.
	Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
	You give away myself, which is known mine;
	Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
LADY CAPULET	Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
COUNTESS	Love you my son?
	The property by what it is should go,
	I have congied with the duke, done my adieu with his
Steward	Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I
BANQUO	Ay, my good lord: our time does call upon 's.
	I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
	Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
	When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
	In the restoring his bereaved sense?
	Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
	O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
	his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at
	paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
	'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
	As if his life lay on't.
Doctor	Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
	Since the physician at your father's died?
REGAN	'Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever
	My operant powers their functions leave to do:
	Come like shadows, so depart!
	swear in both the scales against either scale;
	[Exeunt]
	I know not what he shall. God send him well!
	His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
	The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
	So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you
	the top of my compass: and there is much music,
	Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
EDMUND	'Tis to be doubted, madam.
	Is thought-sick at the act.
HAMLET	I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
	In the affliction of these terrible dreams
LAFEU	What prince is that?
	blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
	Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
FRIAR LAURENCE	Too familiar
	Hath trifled former knowings.
	My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
	And apprehend thee for a felon here.
	An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
	Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
	And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
	If 't be the affliction of his love or no
	[Exit]
CAPULET	Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
	The great prerogative and rite of love,
ACT I
First Clown	I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
	know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but
	And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
	Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
	As he in his particular act and place
	Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
	And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
	I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
	I will say nothing.
	welcome to Elsinore.
	With bur-docks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers,
	To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
OPHELIA	[Sings]
LAERTES	I am satisfied in nature,
	Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
	Will not confess he owes the malady
Second Lord	I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
Herald	Again!
	[Enter MACBETH and BANQUO]
	That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
	Though more to know could not be more to trust,
HAMLET	Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
MACBETH	|
	The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
JULIET	If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
GONERIL	No more; the text is foolish.
HELENA	I did so.
ROSENCRANTZ	To what end, my lord?
	Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
JULIET	Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
PRINCE FORTINBRAS	Where is this sight?
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Have you forgot me?
	As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
KING LEAR	Then there's life in't. Nay, if you get it, you
ACT II
	In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
	On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
HELENA	Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd:
	Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
	For instant remedy: be then desired
	He had the wit which I can well observe
	Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
	Let two more summers wither in their pride,
	is more hotter in France than there.
	And last the hearty welcome.
LENNOX	Goes the king hence to-day?
	I' the shipman's card.
	up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
	High on a stage be placed to the view;
	[Exit]
	Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up;
ROMEO	O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
JULIET	Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
LAFEU	He looks well on't.
BERTRAM	This very day,
	know my business is but to the court.
	now she sings in heaven.
Nurse	O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
DIANA	The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
	Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
HAMLET	A murderer and a villain;
DUNCAN	What he hath lost noble Macbeth hath won.
	I am in this earthly world; where to do harm
ROMEO	Can I go forward when my heart is here?
	With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
BERTRAM	Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
Second Lord	Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
GLOUCESTER	I do remember now: henceforth I'll bear
	When thou liest howling.
	you, when I have held familiarity with fresher
	That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
	He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
Nurse	Peter!
	Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
	knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink
	And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
	Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
LADY MACBETH	Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,
	when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won
	received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be
	Courage to make 's love known?
	And what impossibility would slay
	And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have
	With true observance seek to eke out that
	I cannot live to hear the news from England;
	[Exit]
	Thyself and office deftly show!
GLOUCESTER	Give me the letter, sir.
	Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
	Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
ROSS	And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
	For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
	O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
	But fathers that bear bags
	Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
	stage. Then enter MACBETH]
	[Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and
	of either's moiety.
	Yet am I noble as the adversary
ROMEO	Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
	Within the volume of which time I have seen
BENVOLIO	Of love?
	Shall sun that morrow see!
ROSENCRANTZ	As the indifferent children of the earth.
	though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
	[Dies. FLEANCE escapes]
	Where you may see the inmost part of you.
	called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
DIANA	Will you not, my lord?
ROMEO	Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
COUNTESS	Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
OPHELIA	No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
	With terrible numbers,
	These weeds are memories of those worser hours:
	her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon
	Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
	Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
	One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
	into which they vanished. Whiles I stood rapt in
	And here he writes that he did buy a poison
HORATIO	I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
HORATIO	How was this seal'd?
		      How does the king?
Second Murderer	We shall, my lord,
HAMLET	Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
REGAN	Hang him instantly.
KING CLAUDIUS	O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
	Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
	Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
	Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
	Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
	Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
	O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
	These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
	MACBETH
	[Flourish]
	Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
ACT I
	The ministration and required office
KENT	What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
HORATIO	No, by no means.
SCENE I	Verona. A public place.
	And there I see such black and grained spots
	The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
ROMEO	And we mean well in going to this mask;
	And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
	But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other;
	And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
FRIAR LAURENCE	I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
	[Music and a song: 'Black spirits,' &c]
GLOUCESTER	I know not, madam: 'tis too bad, too bad.
	[Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GONERIL, EDMUND, and Servants]
	[Exit]
Second Servant	I'll never care what wickedness I do,
	We are coming thither: gracious England hath
	Let me be no assistant for a state,
	KING LEAR, CORDELIA, and Soldiers, over the stage;
	That he should weep for her? What would he do,
	[Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS,
	I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
	[Re-enter MACDUFF, with MACBETH's head]
	I will go seek the king.
	To business with the king, more than the scope
	When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
	When usurers tell their gold i' the field;
HAMLET	I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
	And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
	And will not wrong it.
	[Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER]
QUEEN GERTRUDE	Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
	But, orderly to end where I begun,
	And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
	And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live,
CAPULET	When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
	if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
ALL	Seek to know no more.
	[To KENT]
	true descent;
KING LEAR	Ha, ha, ha!
	Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
BENVOLIO	Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
	Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
	If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower,
	For my respects are better than they seem
	Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
	To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
Old Man	I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
	A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
HAMLET	Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
	I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
KING LEAR	Ay, every inch a king:
	My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
KING	I would I had that corporal soundness now,
	Will watch thy waking, and that very night
LADY MACBETH	Is Banquo gone from court?
	In pity of his misery, to dispatch
	For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
	O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
OSRIC	The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
	The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
	This comfort with the like! But I have words
	Since I have lost, have loved, was in mine eye
	Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
	Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
HORATIO	Peace! who comes here?
	My reason all the same; and they are ready
	For strangers to my nature. I am yet
	This gilded serpent
	The confirmation of my promised gift,
	Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
KING LEAR	Am I in France?
KING	Let us from point to point this story know,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have
MACBETH	Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect,
First Lord	When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the
	Where is my lord of Gloucester?
	Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister
First Soldier	No, sir, I warrant you.
	Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
ALBANY	I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
	should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
	king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
	therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you
	Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
	Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
	Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
	I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
Herald	What are you?
LENNOX	Sent he to Macduff?
OSRIC	The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
SCENE I	A room in the castle.
	[Exit First Servant]
Fool	Which they will make an obedient father.
ACT I
	Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor;
	Great tyranny! lay thou thy basis sure,
MERCUTIO	Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
	to hear it.
	On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
	the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
ACT IV
	That she which marries you must marry me,
	in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
	which I would fain call master.
MACBETH	Saw you the weird sisters?
	And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
	I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
	have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
	anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
	[Exeunt]
HELENA	Not my virginity yet [         ]
	wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
	It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
	Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
	What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
JULIET	You kiss by the book.
	[Enter Nurse, with cords]
	such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no
	Who can arraign me for't.
	For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
	Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
	Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
	That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
	[Exeunt]
	Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the dead
	Not pay thee.
LADY CAPULET	Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
	For such a guest is meet.
MALCOLM	I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
OSRIC	Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
	Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
	The bounty and the benison of heaven
	What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
	He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
	Friends of my soul, you twain
	And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
	Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
	the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
	brazed to it.
	Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
	able to lead her a coranto.
	Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
	the thunder would not peace at my bidding; there I
Captain	I'll do 't, my lord.
CAPULET	Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
	That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
ROMEO	And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
	To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
First Clown	[Sings]
LAERTES	It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
	Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
Second Lord	Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
	[Exit above]
	[Exeunt]
KING	If he were living, I would try him yet.
	Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
	Towards which advance the war.
	I do remember well where I should be,
	lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid
LAFEU	I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
	By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
	[Exit]
HAMLET	Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
	If more, the more thou hast wrong'd me.
	Shake patiently my great affliction off:
	To set thee here?
GLOUCESTER	Methinks you're better spoken.
KING LEAR	O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
Second Murderer	A light, a light!
	[She falls upon her bed, within the curtains]
	O, he's a lovely gentleman!
	To shake all cares and business from our age;
OPHELIA	At home, my lord.
	To the descent and dust below thy foot,
Servant	Find them out whose names are written here! It is
HORATIO	Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
	[Throws up a skull]
SEYTON	The queen, my lord, is dead.
EDGAR	He faints! My lord, my lord!
REGAN	O, sir, to wilful men,
LADY MACBETH	                  There are two lodged together.
	He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
	In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
	In what I further shall intend to do,
KING LEAR	When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
KING	We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
	But if the gods themselves did see her then
	[Exit]
	differences, of very soft society and great showing:
HAMLET	Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
	come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
OPHELIA	Pray you, mark.
	And now behold the meaning.
HELENA	That it will please you
	then am I the prisoner, and his bed my goal; from
	Page to Paris; (PAGE:)  another Page; an officer.
	Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
	[Descends]
	Affliction till it do cry out itself
REGAN	Sir, being his knave, I will.
First Lord	They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
	armed with swords and bucklers]
	Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
	And with a sudden vigour doth posset
ALBANY	Well, well; the event.
	We must, with all our majesty and skill,
	No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
	Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
	As I have set it down.
GLOUCESTER	Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
	Despised substance of divinest show!
	The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
KENT	Do:
Clown	No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
	and honourable personages than the commission of your
	And what obscured in this fair volume lies
	By what yourself too late have spoke and done.
	I am a mother to you.
Old Man	Ay, my lord.
	Thither we bend again.
ROSENCRANTZ	I understand you not, my lord.
	He closes with you in this consequence;
	[Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants]
	Or he that makes his generation messes
	Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of
HAMLET	Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
ROSS	No; they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
	Perform what you command us.
GLOUCESTER	Is it a beggar-man?
	[Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA]
	Give but that portion which yourself proposed,
	Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
	Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
	gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
	It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
KING LEAR	How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?
	My son corrupts a well-derived nature
	If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
	On her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight!
	[Enter GONERIL]
	[Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,
	To her, whose state is such that cannot choose
	Requite him for your father.
	Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;
	Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
	And draw you into madness? think of it:
	[Exit]
	We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee: mark.
	Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
	The better to beguile. This is for all:
MARCELLUS	Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
	That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
	With reservation of an hundred knights,
PAROLLES	I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
	To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
LADY CAPULET	Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
	Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
SCENE V	Another part of the platform.
Second Lord	Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?
	As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
	I'll board him presently.
BENVOLIO	An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
KENT	Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
	[Unblinding him]
	against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
	What if this mixture do not work at all?
	[Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS]
KING CLAUDIUS	Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
	And little is to do.
	This she delivered in the most bitter touch of
	To tender it herself. I undertook it,
	That has no relish of salvation in't;
	'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better;
	The associates tend, and every thing is bent
MACDUFF	Carried to Colmekill,
FRIAR LAURENCE	Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
	I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
	Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
	I tell you all her wealth.
	my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge,
	all flesh and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry
Third Servant	Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
	shall be the end of my business.
	Is by a forged process of my death
	and Attendants]
	In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
	Of all their conference. If she find him not,
	To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
	Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
BERTRAM	It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
	From what you rightly are.
QUEEN GERTRUDE	O Hamlet, speak no more:
QUEEN GERTRUDE	No, nothing but ourselves.
	whoreson dog! you slave! you cur!
	Within this hour my man shall be with thee
	With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
	[Wounds his arm]
GLOUCESTER	Ay, sir.
SAMPSON	Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
	Exposing what is mortal and unsure
	[Exeunt]
	From whom we do exist, and cease to be;
MACBETH	Being unprepared,
	northerly.
	Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
	their possets,
	me one thing.
	But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
	Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
	And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
	Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more:
	With wit enough for thee.
	to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold
	Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
	From those that she calls servants or from mine?
HAMLET	The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
	praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
	Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
EDMUND	Come hither, captain; hark.
OPHELIA	Ay, my lord.
	A Page. (Page:)
KING CLAUDIUS	Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
	Till time and I think meet.
	[Exit]
	We would not understand what was most fit;
	My boon I make it, that you know me not
	[Draws]
	Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
	A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
Player Queen	Sleep rock thy brain,
	Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
	Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life,
Second Lord	'Twould not do.
	To offer up a weak poor innocent lamb
	But not without that harmful stroke, which since
	That were some spite: my invocation
	For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
	O, now I would they had changed voices too!
Nurse	Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
	And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
HAMLET	Up from my cabin,
	I recovered it.
	I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
	Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
	And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
	A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
	To use his eyes for garden water-pots,
	And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
	(Second Apparition:)
	And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
	And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
Fool	I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thy
Second Clown	Why, he had none.
	himself on the expectation of plenty: come in
	Yet you desire to marry.
MACDUFF	O Scotland, Scotland!
	but the composition that your valour and fear makes
	Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm.
	To thy good truth and honour. Devilish Macbeth
KING	Take her by the hand,
	Industrious soldiership.
	The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
	On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
	The battle done, and they within our power,
	'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
	Give me a case to put my visage in:
EDMUND	Nothing, my lord.
	To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
	there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
	Holla the other.
Second Clown	Why, 'tis found so.
Fool	Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a
BERTRAM	Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
	That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
MACDUFF	My children too?
	That, Escalus.
	That this remotion of the duke and her
LAERTES	Well; again.
First Soldier	I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
	Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
	have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
EDGAR	What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
KENT	                  In your own kingdom, sir.
	He never will come again.
	For out o' doors he went without their helps,
	[Enter Watch, with the Page of PARIS]
	This is the air-drawn dagger which, you said,
	created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
	That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
Nurse	No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.
FLEANCE	I take't, 'tis later, sir.
	Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
	One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
	At gaming, swearing, or about some act
	Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
	To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
ACT V
	How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
	I am as I have spoken.
LADY MACBETH	Donalbain.
KING CLAUDIUS	'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
	too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
GUILDENSTERN	Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
	kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and
	Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
	Peace! the charm's wound up.
	The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
	To make confession and to be absolved.
	What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows;
	Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,
	That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
	But how wilt thou do for a father?
MACBETH	Tell me, thou unknown power,--
	Who dares do more is none.
	To love my father all.
	But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
	impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I
	thing so overdone is from the purpose of playing, whose
JULIET	That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
	Is a reserved honesty, and that
	dealing. When I desire their leave that I might
	And these great tears grace his remembrance more
	[Enter CAPULET]
KENT	A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
ROMEO	Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
	and baskets]
	He's coming hither: now, i' the night, i' the haste,
	[Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within]
	By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
MACBETH	I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
	At what it did so freely? From this time
	In the dead vast and middle of the night,
	Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
PAROLLES	Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
PRINCE	Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
	His mansion and his titles in a place
	heart was not consenting to.
HAMLET	Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
	More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
	brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most
MACBETH	To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
MACDUFF	Is thy master stirring?
EDGAR	Horrible steep.
	That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
	Old fools are babes again; and must be used
	thee, my dearest partner of greatness, that thou
PAGE	He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
TYBALT	What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
HORATIO	Well, my lord:
	Set less than thou throwest;
EDMUND	No, my lord.
KENT	Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
	Could not, with all their quantity of love,
	o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
	Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
	Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
	That we our largest bounty may extend
	When priests are more in word than matter;
SCENE II	The palace.
	transcendence: which should, indeed, give us a
	Cannot be ill, cannot be good: if ill,
	Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
REGAN	Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us;
	Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
	thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
	Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
	When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
Fool	Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped
DUKE OF FLORENCE	(DUKE:)
	Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselves
KENT	Kind and dear princess!
MACBETH	Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
	A very noble youth: mark.
	But that I know them: do they charge me further?
MARIANA	And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
	That they may seem the taints of liberty,
	Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
	It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
	Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
ALBANY	Go after her: she's desperate; govern her.
	Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
	Witness this army of such mass and charge
BURGUNDY	I am sorry, then, you have so lost a father
	disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars: as
	chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
	Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
	Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
	Than is my deed to my most painted word:
	Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let him trot by.
OPHELIA	So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
HAMLET	O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
MACBETH	We will speak further.
	And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
EDMUND	Sir, you speak nobly.
	Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion.
	this world goes.
	[Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO]
	hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
	Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
	seeming to lament with her. The dead body is
	his valour: what is his honesty?
	My Regan counsels well; come out o' the storm.
LADY MACDUFF	Poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
First Lord	Nothing, but let him have thanks. Demand of him my
ALL	                  A deed without a name.
KING LEAR	Follow me; thou shalt serve me: if I like thee no
	Fathers that wear rags
Danes	We will, we will.
	Against the use of nature? Present fears
	like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court:
	[Enter KENT and OSWALD, severally]
	The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
	I'll visit you.
	oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the
	Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers,
	Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
	Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Nurse	And from my soul too;
	Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
	Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
	Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
	And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
	is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
	With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
	and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image
	That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
	Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
MERCUTIO	If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
	That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
	Through fair Verona; find those persons out
HAMLET	I do beseech you.
	I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
HAMLET	What, look'd he frowningly?
	And guardian of their bones.
	ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
	So, proceed you.
Fool	   Her boat hath a leak,
	After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
	An understanding simple and unschool'd:
	[Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers]
	Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
	Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
	For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
	In me to lose: thus your own proper wisdom
ACT IV
HAMLET	Do not believe it.
ALBANY	Sir, by your patience,
	[Enter ALBANY]
	the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
ACT II
	before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred
	Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
	Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
	The news is not so tart.--I'll read, and answer.
	herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
	Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:
	A stranger, no offender; and inform him
	I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
	The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
	And not from one opposed.
	none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
BENVOLIO	Why, what is Tybalt?
	And made Verona's ancient citizens
	And for the day confined to fast in fires,
	Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you, go
	But under heavy judgment bears that life
	meeting the Guests and Maskers]
		what in the world he is
	I saw upon her finger.
	Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
HAMLET	Pale or red?
	In evils to top Macbeth.
	'When from my finger you can get this ring
	Do you smell a fault?
	Not sure, though hoping, of this good success,
	And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
	He that is strucken blind cannot forget
	Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
	[Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN]
ROMEO	[To JULIET]  If I profane with my unworthiest hand
LORD POLONIUS	Wherefore should you do this?
Captain	I will do't, my lord.
	That we can let our beard be shook with danger
	honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
	Up: so. How is 't? Feel you your legs? You stand.
	Like a good child and a true gentleman.
	thee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
KING CLAUDIUS	O heavy deed!
	O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
GUILDENSTERN	'Faith, her privates we.
	If I should swear by God's great attributes,
QUEEN GERTRUDE	I shall obey you.
	Than such a murder is.
	Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:
	And fearfully did menace me with death,
	Do you but mark how this becomes the house:
	Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
Doctor	Well, well, well,--
	way to the everlasting bonfire.
HAMLET	[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
	Have done to this.
HAMLET	The king my father!
KING LEAR	Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
	As this which now I draw.
	(Player King:)
KING CLAUDIUS	As of a man faithful and honourable.
	Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
FLEANCE	son to Banquo.
	I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
	I'ld say I had eyes again!
REYNALDO	My lord, I have.
	But Romeo may not; he is banished:
	[Exit POLONIUS]
	[Re-enter LAFEU]
	Than in my thought it lies.
EDGAR	Ay, two hours together.
	way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
	epitaph than their ill report while you live.
	Resolvedly more leisure shall express:
	O, methought, there was nothing meet.
	Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
CORNWALL	I now perceive, it was not altogether your
	My masters, know you that.
	As when thy father and myself in friendship
	Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
	Like rats, oft bite the holy cords a-twain
	[Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
	To find the mind's construction in the face:
	[Exeunt]
BERTRAM	My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
	Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
	by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
	owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
	As England was his faithful tributary,
	To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
	Are joyfully return'd.
	Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
	the honest men and hang up them.
HORATIO	What are they that would speak with me?
	The king hath cause to plain.
	And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
BANQUO	                  New horrors come upon him,
	Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand--
	After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
	Too nice, and yet too true!
GONERIL	[Aside]  O, ho, I know the riddle.--I will go.
	Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
	For your claim, fair sister,
	Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
	But by and by comes back to Romeo,
	apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
	And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
	pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
	No traveller returns, puzzles the will
	No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
MARCELLUS	And liegemen to the Dane.
KING LEAR	I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'll
	caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
	Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
	Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition:
	intelligence hath seldom failed.
	Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
	The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
OSRIC	I commend my duty to your lordship.
	love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
COUNTESS	         And to be a soldier?
	Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
BERTRAM	Good morrow, noble captain.
	Return those duties back as are right fit,
	And what's untimely done; so haply slander,
	breed. If it shall please you to make me a
	Gentlemen, and Soldiers.
	I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
	And he to England shall along with you:
	And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
	There is my pledge;
	(First Sailor:)
	an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
	And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
	To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
	But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
GUILDENSTERN	Heavens make our presence and our practises
	With this regard their currents turn awry,
	And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
Doctor	Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
Nurse	Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
	Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
LENNOX	The night has been unruly: where we lay,
	When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
	Importing the surrender of those lands
	To see thy son and heir more early down.
	Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
HELENA	How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
	Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
	This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
GUILDENSTERN	Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
EDMUND	Yours in the ranks of death.
	When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot,
	Almost afraid to know itself. It cannot
	Than for to think that I would sink it here.
	Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Clown	O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of
	lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
	Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
LAERTES	Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
	The lists and full proportions, are all made
PAROLLES	Your pleasure, sir?
	Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
HORATIO	'Tis here!
	And pious action we do sugar o'er
	Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
	Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
	The soldiers' music and the rites of war
PAROLLES	If I do not, damn me.
	Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
	no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
	Which even but now, demanding after you,
LAFEU	Uncertain life, and sure death.
	Rive your concealing continents, and cry
	Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
EDGAR	As I stood here below, methought his eyes
	Upon your will to suffer.
	The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
	Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
	This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
	And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
ROMEO	I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
KING LEAR	I would learn that; for, by the
ROMEO	A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
	Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
	Haply the seas and countries different
	And let the angel whom thou still hast served
	More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
YOUNG SIWARD	Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
	[Exit]
	Should sure to the slaughter,
	To obey in all your daughters' hard commands:
HAMLET	There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
	And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
	Driving back shadows over louring hills:
	Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
	drown or hang themselves, more than their even
	o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
MACBETH	If I stand here, I saw him.
	But goers backward.
	Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
SCENE II	A hall in the castle.
MACBETH	Bring it after me.
	With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks;
	In his bright radiance and collateral light
	I will not be afraid of death and bane,
KING CLAUDIUS	But how hath she
	Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
OSWALD	I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
	And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
	ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
	With a new Gorgon: do not bid me speak;
LORD POLONIUS	With what, i' the name of God?
	Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;
	Whole misadventured piteous overthrows
KENT	This is nothing, fool.
	And be perform'd to-night: the solemn feast
	[Enter PAROLLES]
EDMUND	If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
	Stands in some rank of praise.
	Were poor and single business to contend
	tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
KENT	No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
ACT II
SCENE III	Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
	An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
	To put an antic disposition on,
	See, and then speak yourselves.
	KING LEAR
	[Giving the crown]
	Tooth that poisons if it bite;
	I'll call them back again to comfort me:
Nurse	Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
	Is he not here?
	The ways are dangerous.
BERTRAM	Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
	will fit any question.
	[Bell rings]
	Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir.
BERTRAM	I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
CAPULET	What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
	[Trumpets sound]
	They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
	skill in grass.
	If there be any good thing to be done,
	displeasure in him by word or countenance?
	And what will you do now? How will you live?
First Soldier	You are undone, captain, all but your scarf; that
LADY MACBETH	To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
	With others whom the rigor of our state
	DRAMATIS PERSONAE
	Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
	further use to be made than alone the recovery of
	The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
	To die before you please!
CORNWALL	Fetch forth the stocks!
HAMLET	Mother, you have my father much offended.
	Capitol; Brutus killed me.
	The tyrant's people on both sides do fight;
BERNARDO	He.
	'Tis now near night.
CORDELIA	How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
	I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
	For your desire to know what is between us,
ALBANY	                  Run, run, O, run!
	HAMLET
BENVOLIO	We talk here in the public haunt of men:
HAMLET	Denmark's a prison.
	with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
	Papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in
	ever lost: 'tis too cold a companion; away with 't!
	Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
	Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the Tiger:
	thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
	As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
	Thy hope ends here!
HAMLET	I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
	virginity murders itself and should be buried in
	It is supposed, the fair creature died;
MACBETH	Good repose the while!
	Thy will by my performance shall be served:
	My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
ROSENCRANTZ	To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
	As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
	Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
	worlds suffer,
	More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
OSWALD	Slave, thou hast slain me: villain, take my purse:
	And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
MACBETH	I'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
	For I have need of many orisons
	Already at a point, was setting forth.
	with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer
	Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
KING	I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you,
	That all the world will be in love with night
	But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
Second Lord	Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
	Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
	And bind us further to you.
	Was then scarce friends with him: I have heard
	But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:
	To lead him where he would: his roguish madness
	auricular assurance have your satisfaction; and
	Thou say'st the king grows mad; I'll tell thee, friend,
	Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
BANQUO	Thanks, sir: the like to you!
	the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
	I see thee yet, in form as palpable
	[Knocking within]
	Noble philosopher, your company.
ACT V
MERCUTIO	Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
JULIET	O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
	much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very
DIANA	Good my lord,
MACBETH	Thou wast born of woman
KING LEAR	What's that?
	Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
	To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
	And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
	[Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and ROMEO]
	Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
	too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
	The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
	Between the pass and fell incensed points
	Is my dear son with such sour company:
	Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
MACBETH	Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it.
	husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
	Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
	Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
	Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
MARCELLUS	Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
EDGAR	Give me thy arm:
	Let me still take away the harms I fear,
BERTRAM	For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon
	Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
	What is your will?
	Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
	I made to her in marriage, and to decline
	And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
	[Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN]
TYBALT	I am for you.
	ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
	As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
	To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
	To pluck the common bosom on his side,
	So horridly to shake our disposition
HAMLET	Hear you, sir;
	'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
	But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
	flesh and blood is my friend: ergo, he that kisses
ROMEO	                  I take thee at thy word:
	[Exit an Attendant]
	house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual
	care for me.
	Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
	Till he faced the slave;
	And never trouble Peter for the matter.
	Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
	What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
FRIAR LAURENCE	These violent delights have violent ends
	the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
	The expedition my violent love
	And what they may incense him to, being apt
	his tongue,
	For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
	Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
ACT V
KENT	His countenance likes me not.
Gentleman	Good sir,--
	earnest of thy service.
	Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
	And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
	But every man betake him to his legs.
PRINCE	What misadventure is so early up,
	may be ready for our apprehension.
LAFEU	Your lord and master did well to make his
	length again, tarry: but away! go to; have you
	That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
	taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
	brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
	And these few precepts in thy memory
	For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:
	That I require a clearness: and with him--
First Murderer	Stand to't.
	[Enter, at the other end of the churchyard, FRIAR
	Play something like the murder of my father
	[Enter POLONIUS]
CORNWALL	I have received a hurt: follow me, lady.
	The bold winds speechless and the orb below
	To cure this deadly grief.
	Looking before and after, gave us not
	And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
	Find written in the margent of his eyes.
	Began a fresh assault.
DUKE OF ALBANY	(ALBANY:)
PAROLLES	Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars!
	Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
	[Alarums. Enter MACDUFF]
HAMLET	Good.
	With something rich about me: from that place
ROSS	Gentlemen, rise: his highness is not well.
	So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
	ROMEO AND JULIET
	And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
	I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
	[They fight]
BERNARDO	Have you had quiet guard?
BERTRAM	I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
KING OF FRANCE	Bid farewell to your sisters.
	Attend his majesty!
	So excellent a king; that was, to this,
HAMLET	Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
	thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
KING LEAR	You are a spirit, I know: when did you die?
	Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
